The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Girl Scouts at Singing Sands, by 
Mildred Augustine Wirt

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Girl Scouts at Singing Sands

Author: Mildred Augustine Wirt

Illustrator: Marguerite Geyer

Release Date: December 20, 2019 [EBook #60977]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GIRL SCOUTS AT SINGING SANDS ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Sue Clark, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









  [Illustration: “Come here quick! Tell me what you see.”
                 _Girl Scouts at Singing Sands_ (See page 82)]




  _Girl Scouts
       at
  Singing Sands_

  _BY_
  MILDRED A. WIRT

  _ILLUSTRATED_
  by MARGUERITE GEYER


  CUPPLES AND LEON COMPANY
  _Publishers_      _New York_




  Copyright, 1955, by
  CUPPLES AND LEON COMPANY

  _All Rights Reserved_

  GIRL SCOUTS AT SINGING SANDS

  _Printed in the United States of America_




CONTENTS


  _Chapter_      _Page_

   1 Snug Down                       5

   2 The Locked Door                18

   3 Hager’s Hole                   29

   4 Night Sounds                   36

   5 Song of the Flute              44

   6 The White Witch                52

   7 The Treasure Box               61

   8 Valuable Cargo                 70

   9 “Is Joe There?”                79

  10 A Midnight Disturbance         88

  11 Spell of the Cave              96

  12 The Private Road              103

  13 The Missing Key               113

  14 A Familiar Face               123

  15 Judy’s Mistake                132

  16 Another Disturbance           141

  17 Smoke in the Woods            150

  18 An Urgent Call                159

  19 The Hide-Out                  168

  20 Treachery                     176

  21 Trucker’s Welcome             183

  22 Descent into the Cave         192

  23 The Siphon                    200

  24 Help from Captain Hager       207

  25 Court of Honor                214




_Chapter 1_

SNUG DOWN


Twilight was creeping up Old Baldy Mountain as the dusty station wagon
turned in at the private road leading to Pine Cone Girl Scout Camp.

In the front seat beside the driver, Miss Louise Ward, troop leader,
twisted sideways to smile at the six girls who rode directly behind.
All were attired in the neat, green uniform of the organization, but
each member of Beaver Patrol, it seemed, wore her dark green beret at a
different angle.

“We’ll soon be there now, girls,” the troop leader remarked. “Pine Cone
is lovely. We should have a grand vacation.”

“I suppose it’s too late for a swim this afternoon,” remarked Judy
Grant. She was one of the newest members of the patrol, a pleasant,
dark-haired girl with saucy brown eyes and a ready wit.

“I’m afraid that by the time we’re snug down in our tents, it will
be supper time,” the teacher replied, looking at her wrist watch.
“Besides, we’re all rather tired after driving from Fairfield.”

“I’ll be ready for chow whenever it comes,” declared plump,
good-natured Ardeth Padgett. “This invigorating pine air has given me a
tremendous appetite.”

“Given it to you?” teased Beverly Chester. “I’d say you always had it!”

The remark was made and accepted in fun. Nevertheless, Beverly had a
quick tongue which occasionally annoyed even her best friends. At one
time, the dark-haired eighth grader had been leader of the patrol.
However, during the previous winter, an unfortunate skiing incident had
caused her to become conscious of her personality handicap, and she had
insisted upon turning the post over to Kathleen Atwell.

Kathleen was considered one of the most level-headed girls in the
organization. A natural leader, she always was thoughtful of others and
had a way of getting things done with a minimum of fuss.

The other patrol members were Betty Bache, who wore her sandy hair in
a short boyish bob, and Virginia Cunningham, an excellent athlete.
Judy had nicknamed the three girls the “A-B-C’s” because of their last
names--Atwell--Bache--Cunningham.

All the girls lived in the little city of Fairfield, some distance
from Old Baldy Mountain. Throughout Spring, they had worked very hard
to save enough money for an outing at the official Girl Scout Camp on
Morning Glory Lake. Now, as the station wagon turned into the private
road, they felt that they were indeed at the threshold of a wonderful
adventure.

“Our arrival here is somewhat different from the one last winter when
we trudged into Maple Leaf Lodge,” Virginia Cunningham commented,
grinning at the recollection. “Remember?”

“Can one ever forget?” chuckled Judy. Contentedly, she drew a deep
breath of the pine laden mountain air. “No one to meet us ... a
dreadful snow storm ... the lodge closed ... and that horrible
caretaker!”

“A Scout camp is different, I promise you,” Miss Ward assured the
girls. “Everything is carefully planned. Nothing ever is left to
chance. We should be there any minute now.”

Eagerly, the girls leaned forward in their seats, striving for the
first glimpse of the clear blue lake which they knew would soon be
visible through the tall, stately pines. On either side of the curving
road, they saw rustic signs pointing out interesting trails.

“There it is!” suddenly cried Betty Bache.

To the right, the girls caught a flash of blue water. A moment later,
as the station wagon rounded another curve, they saw the camp itself, a
cluster of tents, with main lodge and dining hall.

The station wagon pulled up at an office near the entrance gate.
Everyone scrambled out, unkinking cramped legs. As the girls helped the
driver unload dunnage, Miss Ward went inside to register the patrol.
She was gone a long while. When finally she rejoined the group, it was
evident by the expression of her face that something had gone wrong.

“Girls, I hate to tell you this--” she began apologetically.

“Don’t say we aren’t to stay!” exclaimed Beverly Chester. “That would
be the last straw!”

“We’re staying,” the teacher replied. “However, there’s been a mix-up
on reservations. Another patrol, which wasn’t expected until next week,
arrived ahead of time.”

“Then there’s no place for us?” Kathleen asked.

“Miss Lubell, the camp director, is extremely upset about it. One tent,
which sleeps four, is available. If we can make out with that for
tonight, more satisfactory arrangements probably can be completed by
tomorrow.”

“There are seven of us,” Beverly pointed out.

“The more the merrier!” declared Judy cheerfully. “I don’t mind being
crowded for a night or two. For that matter, it’s warm enough to sleep
out under the trees. We’ll get along fine.”

“Of course,” added Kathleen heartily, “Scouts aren’t softies.”

“I knew you’d feel that way about it,” Miss Ward said, pleased by the
willingness of the girls to accept inconvenience. “Miss Lubell is
taking me in with her, so that will make only six for the tent.”

After registration had been completed, the girls were shown to their
temporary quarters. They stowed their dunnage, spread their blankets
and changed into informal camp clothes. Carefully reading the rules
posted on a bulletin board, they learned that they would have only a
half hour until the evening meal would be served.

“Let’s see the beach at least,” Virginia proposed. “We have a few
minutes free time.”

A walk led down a gentle slope to Morning Glory Lake, a deep bowl of
deep blue, edged with a ruffle of green forest. The beach had been
cleared of stones and sticks, extending for a long distance. There was
a roped off area for safe swimming, as well as a dock to which were
tied a sailboat and two rowboats.

Judy bent down to test the water with her finger. “Cold,” she reported
with a laugh. “It’s just as well, I guess, because otherwise, I’d be
tempted to leap in, clothes and all!”

The girls of Beaver Patrol met the waterfront director, their unit
leader and several counselors. Members of other patrols and troops
came by to chat and to provide scraps of information relative to camp
routine.

Several of the Beaver Patrol girls were inspecting the outdoor ovens
when the unit leader approached the group.

“I’m looking for Judy Grant,” she said.

“Here I am,” Judy said, separating herself from the other girls. She
could not guess why she had been singled out for attention.

“I have a telegram for you. It came only a moment ago from the village.”

“A telegram?” Judy repeated. She was startled, and stood staring at
the yellow envelope which the unit leader offered.

A half dozen fears assailed her. Her father or mother might have
been taken unexpectedly ill! Perhaps her brother Ted had suffered an
accident! At the very least, something must have gone wrong at home,
and now it might be necessary for her to return to Fairfield before the
vacation really started.

“Well, Judy, why don’t you open it?” Virginia demanded. “Don’t look so
scared.”

“This is the first telegram I ever received,” Judy replied, a bit
shakily.

Ripping open the envelope, she scanned the message. Her chubby face
with its splattering of freckles became a study as she read.

“Bad news?” Betty Bache finally asked.

“No, not exactly. It’s from Aunt Mattie.”

“I don’t recall having heard you speak of her,” remarked Virginia.

“Aunt Mattie is a character. She’s coming here for two weeks.”

“To the Scout Camp?” Beverly inquired.

“Oh, no! Only to the resort area.” Judy folded the telegram and placed
it in the pocket of her slacks. “Aunt Mattie, as usual, must have
acted on impulse. Anyway, she wants me to find her a nice cottage with
reasonable rent.”

“And you haven’t a bed to call your own!” chuckled Kathleen. “From
what I’ve heard, space is at a premium in this locality.”

“That’s right,” agreed Ardeth. “I noted as we drove up the mountain,
that there were no vacancies anywhere. Everything seemed to have been
taken.”

“I saw one place for rent,” Virginia informed the group. “Remember that
sign that said: ‘To Calico Cave?’”

“Yes, I noticed it particularly,” nodded Judy. “I was wondering if
Calico Cave is only a name, or if the road leads to a real cave.”

“A cottage that looked practically new stood on the opposite side of
the road,” Virginia went on. “It was rather cute, I thought. At any
rate, a signboard in the yard said the place was for rent. A real
estate man’s name was given, but I didn’t make note of it.”

“That cottage may be just the ticket!” Judy declared. “I’ll talk to
Miss Ward, and if she says I may, I’ll try to rent the place tomorrow.”

Actually, it was nearly noon the next day before the girls gave further
thought to Aunt Mattie’s housing problem. Camp routine absorbed them
completely. There were so many fascinating things to do, so many
interesting places to explore, that they neither desired nor sought
permission to leave Pine Cone.

A brisk swim in the lake preceded breakfast, and after the camp work
was done, there were classes in nature lore and first aid.

At luncheon, however, Judy broached the problem that was on her mind,
showing Miss Ward the telegram.

“I’m sure Aunt Mattie wouldn’t have made the request, if she had
realized how difficult it is to obtain cottages here,” she apologized.

“Why, I think it’s nice your aunt is coming,” Miss Ward replied. “Of
course we’ll help her find a place. _A Girl Scout’s duty is to be
useful and to help others._”

“That’s law three,” Judy said with a relieved grin. “I just didn’t want
to put anyone to the trouble of having to take me to the village. Aunt
Mattie’s good fun, and I’ll love having her near.”

Later that afternoon the Scout leader arranged for all the girls in the
Beaver Patrol to ride down the mountain to the little town of Milburn,
a railroad and tourist center.

“I may as well tell you the bad news,” Miss Ward remarked regretfully
as the camp station wagon rolled smoothly around the curves. “You’ll be
crowded into a single tent for another night or two. Miss Lubell tried,
but wasn’t able to make other arrangements.”

“Oh, it wasn’t half bad last night,” Kathleen returned. “We’ll manage.”

“Of course,” added Judy cheerfully.

By this time, the station wagon approached a crossroad which bisected
the main highway nearly at a right angle.

“There it is!” Ardeth cried, rolling down the car window. “The road to
Calico Cave! That cottage Virginia noticed is on the other side of the
highway, perched up on a slope among the trees. See it?”

“I do!” cried Judy. “Why, it’s a darling little cottage! I’m sure Aunt
Mattie would love it--if the rent isn’t too high.”

“All rents are sky high in this area,” Beverly Chester warned. “I’ll
bet they’re asking a small fortune for the place. Probably that’s why
it’s vacant.”

“Anyway, it will do no harm to inquire,” Judy said. As the station
wagon halted for a moment, she jotted down the name of the real estate
agent, who offered the cottage for rent.

Twenty minutes later the girls were in Milburn, standing at the door of
the Timothy F. Krumm Realty Co. office.

Mr. Krumm was busy making entries in a book, but he laid aside his
pen as the Scouts approached his cluttered desk. He was a baldish,
middle-aged man with a nervous habit of moistening his lips.

Judy introduced the group, and mentioned her interest in the cottage
which was for rent. Timidly, she inquired the rental price.

“Let’s not talk about price,” Mr. Krumm said briskly. “First, I want
you to see Calico Cottage. Five beautiful rooms, including kitchen,
fully equipped, and a tiled bath with hot and cold running water. A
collosal bargain! And you’ll not find another cottage vacant within six
miles of Morning Glory Lake.”

Judy glanced uneasily at Miss Ward and remained silent. She very much
feared that “the bargain” would be offered at a price too steep for
Aunt Mattie’s modest pocketbook.

“Well, I don’t know,” she began doubtfully. “My aunt isn’t prepared to
pay a very high rental--”

“Give that detail no thought,” Mr. Krumm insisted. “I’ll run you up
there in my car. If you like the cottage--and you’ll be crazy about
it--we can come to terms.”

Almost before she could think, Judy was escorted to the realtor’s car
which was parked at the curb. Miss Ward, Virginia and Ardeth also
decided to accompany them, while the others elected to wait in the
village.

During the swift ride up the mountain road, Mr. Krumm talked endlessly,
extolling the virtues of the cottage he hoped to rent.

“It’s a classy little place,” he told the girls. “Brand spanking new!
You’ll not find a snappier cottage anywhere in the area.”

“But the rental--” Judy began again.

“Now don’t try to get the cart before the horse,” Mr. Krumm interrupted
once more. “Just hold your ponies until you see the cottage.”

Soon the car drew up amid the tall pines, in a lonely but lovely
section of the forest. Mr. Krumm went ahead to remove the front door
key from beneath an over-sized rubber “Welcome” mat on the porch. He
unlocked the door.

“No neighbors hereabouts to bother one,” he asserted, stepping aside so
that the girls might enter. “You’ll find everything in apple-pie order.
Two airy bedrooms. Good mattresses. Nice draperies. Everything the very
best--top hole!”

“It seems a bit musty,” Miss Ward commented.

“Oh, the place needs an airing,” Mr. Krumm replied, quickly raising the
windows. “You know how it is after a cottage has been closed for a long
while.”

“A long while?” the teacher repeated. “Then you’ve had no recent
renters?”

“That was a slip of tongue, a mere figure of speech,” the real estate
man said carelessly. “You like the place?”

“It is attractive,” Judy said after completing a quick inspection of
the kitchen. “My aunt though, will be alone. She requires only one
bedroom. So I’m afraid the rent may be too high.”

“Tell you what! I’ll make you a special offer,” Mr. Krumm said, eyeing
the girl shrewdly. “That is, I will if you’ll agree that the cottage
will be occupied for the full period of the rental. Say, fifty dollars?”

“A week?”

“For the two weeks. You can’t say that isn’t a generous offer. Rents
are high at Morning Glory Lake.”

“It’s a very reasonable rental, I’m sure,” Judy agreed. “There isn’t
anything--wrong with the place?”

Mr. Krumm drew himself up haughtily. “What an idea! I take a shine
to you girls and offer you a real bargain. Then you think there’s
something wrong with the cottage! You think I’m pulling a fast one,
handing you a cabbage!”

“I’m sorry,” Judy apologized hastily. “My question wasn’t tactful. The
cottage is beautifully furnished. If Miss Ward says it is all right,
I’ll take it.”

“Your aunt should be quite comfortable here,” Miss Ward replied after a
moment’s hesitation.

“Fine!” Mr. Krumm approved. He whipped a receipt book from his pocket.
“Now if you’ll kindly pay in advance, we’ll close the deal on the spot.”

Judy had brought only twenty-five dollars with her, but Miss Ward
advanced the remainder, knowing she would be repaid. Mr. Krumm then
handed over the key. Judy asked him if he would mind if the cottage
were put to use before the arrival of her aunt.

“The rent’s paid, and the place is yours, for better or for worse,” the
realtor replied. “All I ask is that you don’t come running to me with
complaints, or a demand for a return of your money. The deal’s final.”

“That’s understood,” Judy agreed.

Having pocketed the fifty dollars, Mr. Krumm seemed eager to be away.

“You may want to look the place over more carefully,” he said quickly.
“I have a pressing engagement in town. Suppose I have your friends pick
you up in the camp station wagon. Okay?”

“Yes, that will be satisfactory,” Miss Ward replied.

“Oh, by the way,” Mr. Krumm said, apparently as an after-thought.
“Better keep that door to the cellar locked.”

“Door?” Judy repeated with misgiving. “I didn’t notice a door. Is there
a special reason--”

Mr. Krumm did not wait for her to complete the question. The girls
were certain he heard and wished to avoid answering. At any rate,
without offering further information, he tipped his hat and hastened
down the weed-grown path to his car.




_Chapter 2_

THE LOCKED DOOR


Miss Ward and the Scouts watched Mr. Krumm drive away with mingled
feelings. Already they were wondering if they had made a mistake in
renting the cottage.

“‘For better or for worse,’” Judy echoed the real estate man’s words.
“‘Final deal.’ It all has an ominous sound.”

“Especially that remark about the locked door,” remarked Virginia. “But
the rent seemed so attractive.”

“Anyway, it was the only place available,” Ardeth pointed out. “So why
worry?”

Judy left the porch to inspect the foundation of the building.
Stooping, she ran an exploratory hand across the crumbling mortar
between the bricks.

“This cottage may be brand spanking new,” she remarked, “but the
building foundation certainly isn’t! Not that it matters, if the place
is comfortable.”

“I’d like to know what Mr. Krumm meant about keeping the cellar door
locked,” Virginia said. “Let’s investigate.”

However, before the girls could reenter the cottage, a milk delivery
truck rolled into the private drive. From the cab leaped a young driver
with reddish hair and a carefree smile. A frisky black and white
short-haired dog trotted at his heels as he came over to the porch with
a wire rack filled with milk bottles.

“Good afternoon,” he said politely, doffing his white cap. “I see you
are moving in. Will you be needing any milk or cream?”

“I’ll take a quart of milk,” Miss Ward decided, selecting a bottle from
the rack.

“How about regular delivery?”

“We’ve rented the cottage for my aunt, who won’t be here for a day or
two,” Judy explained. “If you’ll drop by later on, I’m certain she’ll
sign up.”

“Cloverleaf supplies the best,” the young man said. “My name, by the
way, is Bart Ranieau.”

“You must be of French descent,” Miss Ward remarked.

“My father came from France, but I inherited my red hair and my temper
from my mother. I’m a mixture--like Pete here.”

The cheerful milkman indicated the little dog that was sniffing at
Judy’s heels.

“He’s real cute,” she declared, patting him. “You call him Pete?”

“He’s mine only by adoption,” Bart replied. “He kept following my
truck, so finally I let him ride. Now he sticks like a burr. Never
could find his owner.”

Picking up the rack of bottles which he had set down on the porch, the
young milkman turned to leave. Directing his remark at Judy, he said in
an offhand way: “Your aunt is the hardy type, I hope. Not the kind that
worries about strange noises?”

“We-ll,” Judy replied, startled by the odd question. “Aunt Mattie is
inclined to be nervous. Is there any reason why she should worry about
this place?”

“Oh, the cottage is okay so far as I know,” Bart answered evasively.
“I’d be the last person to run it down, particularly when Old Krumm is
so desperate for a renter.”

“Desperate? Oh, dear, we thought it was just the opposite!”

“That you were getting a bargain?”

Judy nodded miserably. “Now it proves to be a lemon!”

“I didn’t say that!” the milkman corrected her. “And the cottage _is_ a
bargain for anyone hardy enough to stay here.”

“But what’s wrong with the place?” Judy demanded.

“Maybe your aunt won’t find anything out of the way,” Bart said, edging
off with his rack of bottles. “I shouldn’t have said a word. Old Krumm
would have a fit if he knew I’d so much as opened my kisser.”

“Those noises--”

“Forget ’em. Forget I said a thing. You can take my word for it,
there’s nothing really harmful or dangerous about Calico Cottage.”

The Scouts followed Bart and his dog down the walk, trying to learn
more. But the young milkman obviously was in retreat. With a friendly
wave of his hand, he sprang into the delivery wagon and with Pete at
his side drove off.

“There _is_ something wrong with this cottage!” Judy declared with firm
conviction. “That young man spoke of strange noises.”

“Maybe they have a connection with that locked door Mr. Krumm
mentioned,” Ardeth said. “Judy, I think you’ve rented a house with a
mystery!”

“If that’s all that’s wrong with it, I’ll be pleasantly surprised!”
Judy responded, her voice grim, “I wish I could get my money back.”

“No chance of that, I’m afraid,” commented Miss Ward. “Mr. Krumm
warned us the deal was final. He may have taken advantage of us. That
remains to be seen.”

“Let’s really inspect the cottage,” Virginia proposed. “Mr. Krumm
purposely took us through at a whirlwind pace, so we wouldn’t notice
too much.”

Dejectedly, the girls trooped into the cottage. The living room was
pleasant enough with a rug on the floor, a slightly musty-smelling
davenport, chairs, a good reading light and attractive red calico
curtains at the windows.

Bedrooms also were well furnished and ample wardrobe space had been
provided. Water ran rusty from the kitchen tap when Judy turned it on.

“Apparently, the cottage has been empty a long while,” she remarked. “I
guess Mr. Krumm tagged me for an easy mark all right!”

“If you were taken in, so was I,” said Miss Ward. “All the same, I
can’t for the life of me see very much wrong with this place.”

“Let’s inspect the kitchen,” Virginia urged. “Probably the drain won’t
work.”

The sink proved to be an attractive new unit with shiny faucets and an
unmarred enamel finish. Judy, testing the drain, found that it worked
perfectly.

Ardeth had turned her attention to the big electric refrigerator. When
she plugged in the cord, the machinery began to hum.

“Nothing out-of-order here,” she reported.

Miss Ward meanwhile, quietly had been checking the kitchen doors. One
opened onto a back porch and another into a storage room. The third
one, which apparently led down to the cellar, was locked.

She turned the knob and rattled it a couple of times.

“Any key?” Judy inquired.

“None in the door.”

“Why do you suppose it’s kept locked?” Ardeth speculated. “Is there
any reason why we shouldn’t inspect the cellar? After all, it’s part of
the cottage.”

“In a way, it isn’t,” Judy remarked. “I’m certain from examining the
foundation of this place, that the cottage was built on an old base.”

“I don’t see anything so mysterious about a locked cellar door,”
Virginia asserted, losing interest. “Like enough, the basement is damp
and musty. So Mr. Krumm advised keeping the door locked.”

“Why should he tell us to keep it locked, when we have no key with
which to open it?” Ardeth demanded. She was struck by an intriguing
thought. “Say, maybe that key is here somewhere!”

“I know I’m not going to waste time searching for it,” Judy declared.
“I am a bit worried though, about that milkman’s reference to strange
noises. I wish I could be sure the cottage is all right before Aunt
Mattie moves in.”

“There is a way,” Miss Ward returned. “We could sleep here for a night.
In fact, it would relieve the congestion at Pine Cone Camp. We might
try it tomorrow night.”

“Why not?” cried Virginia enthusiastically. “It would be fun!”

“We could stock the cottage larder and have everything ready for your
aunt when she comes, Judy,” added Ardeth with equal zest for the
proposal. “How about it?”

“I’d like to stay,” declared Judy. “It will give us a chance to learn
if anything is wrong with the cottage.”

The girls remained on the premises another half hour. By the time they
were ready to return to Pine Cone Camp, their friends drove up in the
station wagon.

“At least Mr. Krumm relayed our message,” Ardeth said, as she climbed
into the car. “Maybe he isn’t such a bad egg after all.”

From Calico Cottage, the station wagon followed a smooth pavement which
wound in easy curves up the mountain. At a lookout point, the driver
halted briefly to permit the girls to obtain a view of the distant
peaks and valleys. They went on again, but presently were stopped by a
forest ranger, whose green car was parked at the roadside.

“What have we done now?” Beverly Chester muttered uneasily.

The ranger greeted the campers courteously, dropping a handful of
literature into Miss Ward’s lap.

“Welcome to Old Baldy Mountain,” he said. “This entire area is a
national forest preserve. You’re staying at Pine Cone Camp?”

“Yes, we arrived last night,” Miss Ward replied.

“Girl Scouts always are careful about starting fires,” the ranger
continued. “I wish other visitors here were as cooperative. You’re
familiar with the regulations. The most important one is never to start
a fire except in the designated places. You’ll find them all marked on
the forest map.”

“We’ll be careful,” Miss Ward promised.

“My name is Arthur Wentz,” the ranger ended his little talk. “If I can
be of service at any time, let me know.”

Back at Pine Cone Camp a few minutes later, the girls found they had
just enough time for a brisk swim in the lake before dinner.

Judy and Kathleen, who were good swimmers, were paired together. They
tried their skill on the diving board, watched a group of other Scouts
receiving instruction in Red Cross Life Saving, showered off and were
ready for a hot meal when it was served promptly at 5:30 p.m.

Later, when all the girls had gathered for songs and a nature
talk in the main lodge room, Miss Lubell mentioned a plan whereby
all interested patrols would take part in a competitive first-aid
expedition.

“It will work like this,” she related. “Arrangements have been made
for a forest patrol plane to drop messages to the various Scout groups
which will scatter over the mountainside. The notes will provide
fictional location of a plane crash. The patrols are to proceed as
quickly as possible to the site of the crash, administer first aid and
summon help. There will be an award for the patrol which accomplishes
its mission first and with the most skill.”

“If it’s all to be imaginary, how will we give first aid?” Betty Bashe
asked in a puzzled tone.

“Everything will be worked out carefully,” Miss Lubell replied, with
a smile. “Although the crash is to be imaginary, counselors will be at
the secret site selected. Notes pinned on their clothing, will provide
clues as to the type of injury supposedly suffered. For example, one
counselor may have an imaginary broken arm. The unit reaching the scene
first, will be expected to care for the injuries exactly as if they
were real.”

“Say, that will give us first class experience,” Kathleen declared
enthusiastically. “I hope Beaver Patrol wins!”

Next day in camp the girls were given opportunity to brush up on
previous first aid training, and patrol leaders received maps of the
mountain area in the vicinity of Pine Cone Camp.

Throughout the day, when not otherwise absorbed by camp activities, the
girls of Beaver Patrol pored over the map, thoroughly familiarizing
themselves with every road and trail.

After lunch a telegram came for Judy from her Aunt Mattie Meadows,
announcing that she would arrive in two days at Milburn.

“That doesn’t give us too long to prepare the cottage and make certain
that everything is satisfactory there,” Judy remarked, as she showed
Miss Ward the message. “Will we be permitted to stay at the cottage
tonight?”

“I’ve talked it over with Miss Lubell,” the Scout leader replied.
“While she considers it irregular for any of the girls to remain away
from the camp, she realizes that through no fault of hers or ours,
one of the tents is badly overcrowded. So until that situation can
be corrected, she is granting permission for three of the girls, and
myself, to sleep at the cottage. We’ll prepare our own breakfasts
there, and then return here for the day’s program.”

“We’re staying at Calico Cottage tonight then?”

“Yes, Kathleen, as patrol leader, will remain here with Beverly and
Betty. Ardeth and Virginia will go with us to the cottage. The camp
station wagon will take us to Milburn where we can buy necessary
supplies. Then we’ll be deposited at Calico Cottage, and be picked up
again tomorrow morning.”

The plan was acceptable to everyone, although Kathleen, Beverly and
Betty secretly were a bit disappointed that they were not to be
included in the party.

“Never mind!” Miss Ward assured them. “Perhaps tomorrow night, we can
trade places.”

At four o’clock, the station wagon came to take Miss Ward, Judy, Ardeth
and Virginia to the Village. Most of their luggage was left behind, but
each girl had packed a few essentials which would be needed for the
over-night stay.

At Milburn, the Scouts sought a grocery store, there to make careful
purchase of a list of supplies they had worked out. As she paid for the
groceries, Judy remarked that they were to be used at Calico Cottage.

“Calico Cottage?” repeated the woman who had waited upon her. “Don’t
tell me you’re staying at that place!”

“Yes, we are for a few days,” Judy admitted. “I rented the cottage for
my aunt. Until she comes, a few of the Scouts plan to use some of the
bed space.”

“You may like the cottage,” the woman replied. “No one could hire me to
stay there though!”

“Why not?” Judy inquired, instantly alert. “What _is_ wrong with the
cottage?”

“That’s what folks around here would like to know,” the woman replied
with an expressive shrug of her shoulders. “It’s close to Hager’s Hole
for one thing.”

“Hager’s Hole?”

“Some call it Calico Cave.” The clerk rang up the sale and packed the
groceries into sacks for convenient carrying. She did not seem inclined
to carry on the conversation.

“Please tell us what you know about the cottage,” Judy requested
earnestly.

“Really, I don’t know a thing. I shouldn’t have said a word. It’s just
that it seems sort of queer about the tenants.”

“Did anything happen to them?”

“Oh, no,” the woman answered. “But the last couple stayed only two
days. They moved out in the middle of the night. Since then Mr. Krumm
hasn’t been able to find another renter.”




_Chapter 3_

HAGER’S HOLE


The sun had lowered behind the spruce trees as the camp station wagon
unloaded three sober-faced Scouts and their leader at the doorstep of
Calico Cottage.

“I’m not certain that we should stay here,” Miss Ward remarked
uneasily. “All this talk we’ve heard about the place makes me wonder if
I’m acting wisely to allow the group to remain overnight.”

“And I’m worried about Aunt Mattie coming here,” Judy added. “I wish I
never had taken the cottage. We’ve rented a lemon, that’s certain.”

The girls had been unable to glean any definite information from the
woman in the grocery store. However, her observation that other tenants
repeatedly had moved out, had filled them with misgiving.

At Miss Ward’s suggestion, Judy had gone to Mr. Krumm to ask for a rent
refund. He had rejected the request, impatiently assuring her that
nothing was wrong with the cottage.

“I thought Girl Scouts had nerve,” he lectured her. “What happens? You
hear a few busybodies passing gossipy remarks, and immediately jump to
false conclusions. When you rented the cottage I gave you a good price
on it with the understanding that you’d stick by the deal. Now you come
crying to me before you’ve spent even a night in the place.”

“Girl Scouts do have nerve,” Judy had replied, carefully controlling
her temper. “We believe in being cautious though. And we don’t like to
be misled or cheated.”

“It was your own proposition,” Mr. Krumm retorted. “You wanted the
cottage and you got it. I’m making no refund!”

So now, as the three Scouts stood on the porch waiting as Miss Ward
unlocked the door, they were wondering what the night might bring forth.

There was little conversation as the girls quietly set to work making
the cottage more liveable. Ardeth opened the windows to air out the
rooms. Virginia made up the beds, while Judy and Miss Ward put away the
groceries.

“You’re not much worried about staying here tonight are you?” Judy
asked the leader as she stacked eggs in the refrigerator.

“No. If I were, I’d take the girls back to Pine Cone Camp,” Miss Ward
replied. “Frankly though, I don’t like the things we’ve heard. I can’t
imagine why tenants would leave here suddenly unless--”

“Calico Cottage may have a ghost,” Judy supplied with a nervous giggle.

“Judy, we know there are no such things!”

“Maybe by staying here we can disprove the rumors that have been
circulating,” Judy said soberly. “Now, if we could, that would be
performing a real service for Mr. Krumm.”

An inspection of the cottage and the grounds immediately surrounding
it, proved reassuring. Save that a musty, damp odor lingered in the
dwelling even after rooms had been thoroughly aired, the girls could
detect nothing amiss.

“Our telephone is connected,” Miss Ward reported. She had tested it by
calling Miss Lubell at Pine Cone Camp. “It’s reassuring to know that if
anything should go wrong, we’ll not be cut off from help.”

“As we were last winter at Maple Leaf Lodge!” Judy added with a laugh.
“Remember how that man, who pretended to be a caretaker, cut the wires?”

“And the exciting time we had at Penguin Pass with Monstro the
Snowman!” contributed Virginia, who had overheard the conversation.
“Those were the days!”

“You speak as if our adventures are over,” chuckled Ardeth. “I have a
hunch we may have a few here at Calico Cottage before we’re through.”

The three girls became thoughtful as they reflected upon a recent
skiing excursion to Maple Leaf Lodge on Candy Mountain. Judy, at the
time, had been a Tenderfoot Scout. However, she had proven her courage
and by passing difficult tests, had moved up in rank.

For that matter, not only Judy, but the entire patrol had won the
admiration of villagers by the efficient manner in which the capture
of a dangerous criminal had been accomplished. This story of the Girl
Scouts’ meeting with a clever impersonator has been told in the first
volume of a series, entitled: “The Girl Scouts at Penguin Pass.”

Judy and Ardeth peeled potatoes for the evening meal, set the table and
prepared a simple salad.

“Anything more?” Judy then inquired.

“Not for awhile,” Miss Ward replied. “The meat loaf will take at least
thirty minutes more in the oven. Then we’ll have dinner.”

“Mind if Ardeth and I do a bit of exploring?”

“Not if you’ll be back within half an hour.”

“We will,” Judy promised. “Want to come along, Virginia?”

“No, thanks, I’ll stay to help Miss Ward with last minute things,” she
decided. “Besides, I had enough hiking this morning.”

Letting themselves out the screen door, Judy and Ardeth walked through
the aisle of tall trees to the main highway. Then, without any
discussion, they turned into the narrow private road, and struck off in
the general direction of Calico Cave.

“No telling how far it may be,” Judy presently remarked. “Or whether
we can find it quickly. I simply have to see that place!”

“Caves always fascinated me,” declared Ardeth, walking fast to keep up
with her friend. “I hope this one has stalactites.”

For awhile, the girls walked directly into the setting sun. The road
was hemmed in on either side with stately evergreens which spiced the
air with a pleasant fragrance. Presently, hearing a sound behind her,
Judy looked back and was astonished to see a small dog following almost
at her heels. She halted to coax him to her. He wagged his stub tail,
and licked her hand affectionately.

“Why, Ardeth, it’s Pete!” she exclaimed.

“Not the milkman’s dog?”

“It’s the same dog, I’m sure. Do you suppose he jumped off the milk
truck and is lost?”

“He doesn’t act lost,” Ardeth rejoined as the animal started on ahead
of Judy. “In fact, he seems to know right where he’s going.”

“Maybe we should catch him,” Judy said doubtfully. “He might get lost
in the woods.”

The two Scouts started after Pete, but the faster they hurried, the
more distance the dog put between them. Now and then, he would pause to
look back and bark, as if to tell them that he thoroughly enjoyed the
game.

Presently the weed-grown private road came to a dead-end in a loop
which permitted a car to turn around and retravel the route it had
come. A weather-beaten signboard read: “To Calico Cave,” its painted
arrow pointing up a rocky trail.

“Come back here, Pete!” Judy called. “Why, you little scamp!”

Paying not the slightest heed, the dog trotted up the trail.

“He acts as if he’s been here before,” Ardeth observed. “Maybe he’s
trying to guide us to the cave!”

“We really should turn back,” Judy said. “Oh, well, if we hurry, maybe
we’ll have time to take a quick peek at the cave.”

Struggling up the sharp incline, the girls soon came to an opening amid
the tall bushes. To their right was an expanse of limestone rock, badly
eroded by the elements.

“There it is! The cave!” Judy cried as she discerned a small, dark
opening.

Pete had gone directly to the entrance and stood there, barking and
jerking his head, as if to beckon the girls.

“That dog has been here before all right!” Judy declared. “Otherwise he
wouldn’t be so excited about the place.”

With Ardeth close behind, she picked her way across the rocky path to
the projecting shelf. The cave opening was barely shoulder height and
not more than four feet wide.

Curiously, Judy peered down into the dark interior. “It’s just a
narrow passage leading gradually into a deep endless hole,” she
reported. “I imagine though, that the cave may open up into a large
chamber somewhere below. Want to explore?”

“You and your jokes!”

Judy laughed and turned to leave. Ardeth however, crouched down to
direct her gaze into the opening.

“I can hear water dripping,” she reported. “Say, why do you suppose the
name of this place was changed from Hager’s Hole to Calico Cave? Or are
they one and the same?”

“Ask Pete,” Judy replied with a chuckle. “He seems to know more about
the place than we do.”

She whistled to attract the dog’s attention, but he paid her no heed.
Even after she and Ardeth started down the path, he kept sniffing at
the cave entrance.

“Come on, Pete!” Judy called impatiently.

“Maybe he thinks he’ll find a rabbit down in that hole,” Ardeth
remarked. “I hate to leave him here alone. I’ve heard of dogs losing
themselves in caves.”

“He’ll come in a minute or two,” Judy returned. “He’s only trying to
tease us.”

Pete, however, did not follow the girls. At the bend of the path, they
looked back again. Even as they called to him, he barked and vanished
into the dark hole.




_Chapter 4_

NIGHT SOUNDS


“Why, that crazy Pete!” Judy cried as she saw the dog disappear into
the opening. “He went into the cave!”

Worried lest the pet lose himself in the dark cavern, the girls quickly
ran back to the shelf of projecting rock.

Anxiously, Judy peered into the deep, rather terrifying hole.

“Pete!” she called. “Pete! Come back here!”

The little dog could not be seen, but the girls heard a muffled,
answering bark. It seemed to come from far down in the bowels of the
rock.

“He’s a long distance in,” Judy said anxiously. “What’ll we do, Ardeth?
Go after him?”

“No, we don’t dare,” the other decided. “It’s dangerous to explore
caves without taking precautions. Besides, Miss Ward is expecting us at
the cottage.”

“Pete may never find his way out. That’s what worries me.”

The dog’s smothered bark gradually faded until no sound could be
heard. Thrusting head and shoulders into the hole, Judy tried again to
catch a glimpse of the truant pet.

“Not a sign of him,” she reported hopelessly. “All we can do is report
to Bart Ranieau. He was such a nice little dog--”

“Do you see him?” Ardeth demanded as Judy broke off her remark.

For a long moment, Judy made no reply. Then she pulled her head out of
the opening, staring at her friend rather wide-eyed.

“What’s wrong?” Ardeth questioned. “Did you see a ghost?”

“You look down there in that hole,” Judy urged. “Tell me what you see.”

Ardeth moved in close beside her, peering into the darkness. A gust of
wind ruffled her hair and nearly bowled her headlong into the cave. She
grasped a projection of limestone rock for support.

“See it?” Judy demanded.

“Pete, you mean?”

“No! No! Look far down the passageway, Ardeth.”

Try as she would, Ardeth could see nothing save empty space. Now that
her eyes were becoming more accustomed to the blackness, she could make
out a white rock floor, and on the ceiling, a wet patch where grew a
tight mat of lichens. But that was all.

“Look down,” Judy directed again. “I’m sure I didn’t imagine that I
saw something moving in the passageway.”

Once more Ardeth directed her gaze below, and involuntarily stiffened.

“Now I see it!” she exclaimed. “Why, it looks like a moving light!”

“I thought so too,” Judy agreed. “You don’t suppose anyone could be
down there?”

“At this late hour?”

“It doesn’t seem likely, does it?”

“Maybe Calico Cave has a ghost,” Ardeth declared with a nervous giggle.
“Wouldn’t that be something!”

Judy had peered into the cave again. “The light is moving away,
descending the passageway,” she reported. “Ardeth, Pete may have
started down there to investigate.”

“If he did, he’s welcome to the job! Just to look down into that ink
well gives me the jitters. Poor Pete! We’ll never see him again, I’ll
bet.”

“Someone will have to get him out,” Judy insisted. “It would be too
heartless to let him die in there. Miss Ward will know what to do.”

Though she would not have admitted it, the moving light which seemed to
have no explanation, had somewhat unnerved her. With dusk coming on,
she was eager to be away from the lonely locality.

“Okay,” Judy agreed reluctantly.

Before getting up from the crouched position, she took a last look
into the cave. The light had vanished completely and Pete likewise
could not be seen.

“Since we can’t save Pete without risking our safety, I guess we may as
well hike for Calico Cottage,” Ardeth declared quickly.

The chill of evening was in the air as the two girls silently trudged
back the way they had come. A rising breeze whipped the evergreens
overhead, making ragged shadows, and causing the needles to whisper
mournfully. Far below, the White River remained visible in the dying
sunlight, a wide, shining band of silvery blue.

At Calico Cottage, supper was nearly ready. Judy and Ardeth, however,
had little appetite. Dejectedly, they related their discovery of the
cave, and their misfortune in losing Pete.

“You were wise not to try to venture into that hole,” Miss Ward assured
the two girls. “The dog may wander out by himself. Even if he is lost,
the risk of trying to bring him out without a guide, would be very
great.”

“You really think Pete will get out by himself?” Judy asked,
brightening.

“He may. At any rate, he’ll survive for many days. I’ll telephone the
young milkman and tell him his dog is lost. You’re certain the pet was
his?”

“It was Pete, all right,” Ardeth answered. “He acted as if he’d been in
that cave before too.”

“Then there’s an excellent chance he may find his way out,” the troop
leader asserted. “I’ll telephone the dog’s owner now. Do you recall his
name, Judy?”

“Bart Ranieau.”

Miss Ward went directly to the telephone, but was unable to contact the
young man. She learned that he roomed in the village, and was informed
by his landlady that after coming in from his milk route, he had left
without saying where he intended to go.

“If we can’t get word to him by tomorrow morning, I’ll notify the
forest rangers,” Miss Ward decided. “They’ll know how to proceed.”

As night came on, the girls washed all the dishes and tidied the
kitchen. The very nearness of the cave and the knowledge that Pete was
lost somewhere in its vast recesses, tended to depress them.

Virginia spoke somewhat wistfully of Pine Cone Camp, speculating upon
whether or not the other Scouts might be having a ceremonial fire and
singfest there.

“We’re cut off from the fun here,” Judy acknowledged. “It’s my fault
too. If Aunt Mattie hadn’t sent that telegram, we’d all be in camp
together.”

“Considering the mix-up over reservations, the sleeping arrangement is
much better here,” Ardeth declared. “Besides, we don’t want your aunt
to have this cottage if it isn’t suitable.”

“It’s a Girl Scout’s duty to be useful and to help others,” added
Virginia gravely. “At any rate, we like Calico Cottage.”

“I can’t see anything wrong with the place,” Ardeth picked up the
conversation. “Of course, it’s isolated and a bit lonely off here in
the pines. Now and then that musty odor hangs over the place, and one
can’t seem to localize it. The cottage isn’t really damp.”

“I’ve been annoyed by that odor myself,” said Miss Ward. “It was
especially strong when first we opened up the cottage. I wonder if it
comes from the cellar?”

“With that door locked, we can’t investigate,” Judy responded. “What do
you suppose became of the key? And why did Mr. Krumm advise us to keep
the door locked? Those questions keep going around in my mind.”

The evening passed slowly for the girls. Ardeth sewed and the others
tried to read. As a chill crept over the cottage, Miss Ward lighted
a heater which made the living room more cheerful. By eight-thirty,
everyone was ready to go to bed.

“We must be abroad early in the morning,” Miss Ward warned. “Breakfast
at seven. The camp station wagon will pick us up between eight-thirty
and nine o’clock.”

Judy and Ardeth had elected to share one of the bedrooms, while
Virginia and the teacher took the adjoining chamber. The mattresses
were surprisingly comfortable.

Snuggling down into the covers, Judy closed her eyes, but was annoyed
to discover that she was not sleepy. Ardeth, on the other hand, curled
up like a kitten, and soon was breathing with deep regularity.

“What’s the matter with me anyhow?” Judy asked herself. “I guess I
can’t take the comforts of home.”

For awhile, she stared out the open window, watching the movement of
the pine trees. A strong, cool breeze had arisen. It flapped the calico
draperies and whistled around the corners of the flimsily-built cottage.

Judy resolutely tried not to think of Calico Cave or poor Pete, but
the harder she struggled to banish the unpleasant recollection, the
more clearly it emerged. She could visualize the little dog, wandering
helplessly deeper and deeper into the cavern, always searching for an
exit which never materialized.

“I’m becoming positively morbid!” she told herself sternly. “Enough of
this!”

Judy tossed off the blankets and taking care not to disturb Ardeth,
went quickly to the kitchen for a drink of water.

The cottage was very still. Now that she was abroad, Judy began to
regret that she had left her comfortable, warm bed. The kitchen was
icy cold and the only light came from a half moon which shone eerily
through the windows.

Judy drank a glass of water in the darkness, preferring not to disturb
any of the sleepers by switching on a light. In the kitchen, the damp,
unpleasant odor which the girls had noted earlier, seemed especially
strong.

“I’m sure it comes from the basement,” she thought, sniffing the air
close to the locked door. “Maybe this is why Mr. Krumm wants us to keep
it closed. But what can cause such an odor?”

Judy had started to move away when she was startled by an unusual sound
which seemed to come from beneath the floor of the kitchen. The noise
assaulted her ears as a series of loud thumps.

“Gracious!” Judy thought, backing a step away from the locked cellar
door. “What’s going on down there in the basement? Maybe this place
does have a ghost!”

If the loud thumping, bumping noise had startled Judy, she was to
suffer an even greater shock.

As she held herself rigid, straining to catch the slightest sound,
there arose from below, the clear melodious notes of a flute!




_Chapter 5_

SONG OF THE FLUTE


Judy stood transfixed, listening tensely. The musical notes now had
died out and in the kitchen there was only silence. Had the strange
notes of the flute been no more than a trick of the imagination?

Suddenly she was aware of a sound in the room beyond the kitchen. Judy
whirled to see a white apparition framed in the doorway. She uttered a
choked cry and then laughed aloud in relief. The figure was no ghost,
only Miss Ward in a white bathrobe.

“Did I startle you?” the teacher asked in a whisper. “It is you, Judy?”

“Yes, I couldn’t sleep. I came out here to get a drink of water. For a
minute I thought you were a ghost from the basement!”

“Oh, Judy!” Miss Ward reproved. “What nonsense!”

“I was joking,” Judy said hastily. “Of course, everyone knows there are
no ghosts. All the same, that sound was unnerving.”

“Sound? What sound, Judy?”

“Well, it seemed to come from the cellar. First, I heard a series of
loud thumps. Then, I thought I heard someone playing the flute.”

“Perhaps the sound drifted in from outside the cottage.”

“I’m sure it didn’t, Miss Ward.”

For several minutes the Scout leader listened attentively, but the
noises which had disturbed Judy were not to be heard again.

“It is very late,” she said finally. “Judy, you must go back to bed.”

“I’m sorry to have awakened you. I tried to be quiet.” As Judy started
across the kitchen, the badly constructed floor creaked beneath her
slippered feet. She had reached the living room doorway, when she was
brought up short by the high pitched note of a musical instrument.

“There it is again, Miss Ward!” she whispered, grasping the teacher’s
arm. “A flute! Hear it?”

“Yes, I do,” the Scout leader replied. “It certainly sounds like a reed
or a wind instrument.” She stood very still, listening.

From below the flooring issued a series of musical notes, tuneless but
not displeasing to the ear. Then the kitchen again was enveloped in
silence.

“It wasn’t my imagination, Miss Ward. You heard it too!”

“No, you didn’t imagine it, Judy,” the teacher soberly agreed. “The
sound came from the basement, or so it seemed to me.”

Crossing to the cellar door, Miss Ward twisted the knob and pulled
hard on it. “It’s still locked,” she murmured. “I begin to understand
why Mr. Krumm was unwilling to make a refund on the rent.”

“This explains why the other tenants moved out so suddenly.”

“It may,” Miss Ward acknowledged. “Evidently, there is a very good
reason for keeping this door locked.”

“You don’t suppose--anyone--could be down there?” Judy said
falteringly. “Maybe locked in?”

“I’m afraid you’ve been watching too many television thrillers.”

“I guess so,” Judy admitted, laughing shakily. “My theory is wild all
right. How do you explain the flute?”

“I don’t. However, I intend to talk to Mr. Krumm tomorrow. If this
cottage has a mystery or any possible danger, it is his duty to inform
us completely. Now get to bed, Judy. I’ll sit up for awhile.”

Next morning, when Judy awoke from a deep slumber, bright sunlight was
streaming through the slats of the venetian blinds. Ardeth already was
up and dressed.

“Breakfast in ten minutes,” she informed Judy, giving her a hard shake.
“If you don’t get a move on, we’ll not be ready by the time the camp
station wagon calls for us.”

“I guess I overslept,” Judy mumbled, pulling out of bed and groping
blindly for her shirt and slacks. “Is everything all right?”

“Is everything all right?” Ardeth echoed, starting to air the bed.
“What could go wrong so early in the morning?”

“I was just wondering, that’s all,” Judy answered, deciding to postpone
the tale of the flute until after breakfast. “What smells so utterly
delicious?”

“Bacon. Miss Ward and Virginia are cooking it. We’ve been assigned to
the dishes.”

Judy dressed speedily, helped Ardeth tidy the bedroom, and was ready in
time to help carry dishes to the breakfast table.

Miss Ward herself broached the subject of the strange sounds which had
been heard in the basement during the night.

“I don’t wish to alarm anyone,” she asserted, pouring hot chocolate.
“I feel though, that if we are to stay here, we must be on the alert.
Furthermore, I intend to ask Mr. Krumm for an explanation. I am sure
there is one, and that he can provide it.”

“If he will,” Judy added. “He certainly wasn’t passing out any
information when he rented this cottage. I don’t know what to do about
Aunt Mattie.”

“Fortunately, she won’t be here for a day or two,” Miss Ward replied.
“We’ll have a little time in which to try to clear up the situation.”

As was to be expected, Ardeth and Virginia expressed keen
disappointment at having missed out on the excitement. They asked a
dozen questions, and spent the entire breakfast period speculating upon
the nature of the mysterious basement sounds.

“Calico Cottage has a ghost!” Virginia insisted gaily. “How thrilling!
And a boy who plays a flute is far more interesting than an ordinary
apparition.”

“How do you know it’s a boy ghost?” Ardeth demanded. “For all we know,
it may be an old man or a beautiful lady in white. My, I wish we could
get down into the cellar!”

“I can see you leading the way!” Virginia teased. “Anyway, we have a
more urgent problem.”

“That little dog,” interposed Judy, her face becoming grave. “Something
must be done to get him out of the cave.”

Miss Ward told the girls that she had tried very early that morning
to get in touch with Bart Ranieau. Though she had telephoned at seven
o’clock, he already had left his rooming house and was off on his route.

“He may come this way,” she remarked hopefully. “If he does, perhaps we
can flag him down. Otherwise, I’ll call the forest ranger headquarters
in the village.”

Breakfast finished, Judy and Ardeth cleared the table and made a fast
and furious attack upon the dishes. As they rushed about, stacking
china neatly in the cupboards, they kept an attentive ear trained on
the cellar area. The only sounds came from out-of-doors.

“If Miss Ward hadn’t backed up your story about that flute player, I’d
have accused you of dreaming it up,” Ardeth declared. “Just my luck to
have missed out on the fun.”

“It was scarey, rather than fun,” Judy answered. “For Aunt Mattie’s
sake, I hope our basement friend doesn’t strike any more sour notes.”

Hanging up the dish towels to dry, the two girls joined Miss Ward and
Virginia who were watching the highway for a glimpse of either the
station wagon or the milk truck.

“There it comes!” Virginia suddenly cried, spying the vehicle driven by
Bart Ranieau.

All the Scouts rushed to the main highway to flag down the milk wagon.

“Hi!” Bart greeted the girls as he halted the delivery wagon at the
side of the road. “I see you’ve moved in. Need milk or butter this
morning?”

“We can use two quarts of milk,” Miss Ward returned. “But we stopped
you for another reason.”

“It’s about Pete,” Ardeth said tensely. “He lost himself in the cave
last night. Judy and I called to him, but he wouldn’t come out. He kept
going deeper and deeper in the hole.”

She broke off in the report, suddenly aware that the young milkman was
smiling in an odd sort of way.

“That Pete!” he remarked. “He’s a natural-born spelunker.”

“A what?” demanded Judy.

“A spelunker. That’s what modern cave explorers call themselves. The
science of caves is called speleology.”

Bart motioned for the girls to step over to the milk wagon. Peering in,
they saw Pete sprawled comfortably on a rug, lying on the floor. He was
fast asleep, his head resting on his forepaws.

“Pete found his own way out of the cave, as he usually does,” Bart
explained. “I’ve tried to keep him out, but no soap. One of these days,
he may lose his life in there.”

“Well, at any rate, he’s safe now,” Judy declared, greatly relieved.
“Is the cave very deep?”

“The exit never has been found.”

“Really?” Ardeth’s eyes opened wide. “I guess Calico Cave is an unsafe
place.”

“One shouldn’t venture in very far without a guide. Some ten years
ago, a very courageous man whom I knew rather well, lost his life down
there. He was seeking the cave exit. Since then, no one has ventured
past the point where he last was seen.”

Judy inquired if Calico Cave and Hager’s Hole were one and the same
place. Bart replied that they were identical.

“For years the cave was known as Hager’s Hole,” he explained. “It was
named for old Captain Hager, who once owned this property.”

“Our cottage?” Virginia asked in astonishment.

“Not the cottage. But the Hager home used to stand in the same
location. Mr. Krumm bought the place not so long ago. He tore down the
old house and put up a new cottage on the original foundation. Folks
advised him not to do it, but no one can tell Krumm anything!”

“He’s had a little trouble renting the cottage?” Judy probed.

“Oh, renters came along fast enough, but they wouldn’t stay!” the
milkman chuckled. “Some of ’em, it seems, were allergic to strange
sounds. I take it you folks spent a comfortable night?”

“We were disturbed once,” Miss Ward answered. “Nothing serious. We
fancied we heard a flute player.”

“No ghosts?” Bart asked, grinning.

“Nary a ghost,” Miss Ward returned. “Naturally we were a bit disturbed
about the music, and intend to seek an explanation.”

“Mr. Ranieau, you seem to be quite familiar with Calico Cave,” Judy
remarked pointedly. “Could you, by chance, tell us why the name was
changed, and maybe explain the mystery of the cottage?”

“Maybe I could,” Bart said, grinning in an odd way. “I like you folks.
You have more nerve than those other renters. Maybe, if you ask pretty,
I’ll tell you the story of the Old White Witch.”




_Chapter 6_

THE WHITE WITCH


Bart Ranieau’s remark about the White Witch intrigued the girls, who
immediately pleaded with him to tell them the story connected with the
cave.

“Okay,” he agreed, “but I’m late on my route this morning, so I’ll have
to make the tale brief. Calico Cave is very old. It was here before the
village was incorporated and has had a half dozen names over the years.

“According to an ancient legend, an old witch once lived in the cave,
arousing the villagers by casting horrible spells upon them. In their
terror they called upon a monk who once resided in the mountains, to
turn the old hag into stone. So now in a chamber of the cave you may
see a strange stalagmite formation--the White Witch.”

“Is that a true story?” Virginia asked, deeply impressed.

“The legend is true. As for the White Witch, you can see her if you’ve
a mind to explore as far as the first chamber.”

“You don’t believe that tale yourself, I take it?” Miss Ward inquired
with a broad smile.

“I think the story was made up to explain the white formation, which
does resemble a witch,” Bart answered. “Over the years, the yarn took
on more and more detail and color.”

“I’d love to see that old stalagmite witch,” Judy declared, her dark
eyes sparkling. “How deep down in the cave is the formation?”

“Too far for you to explore alone,” the milkman responded. “Don’t
try it. Not without a guide. Caves are safe enough, if one takes
precautions, but they’re no place for amateur explorers, unsupervised.”

“Does Calico Cave have any other interesting formations besides the
Witch?” Judy inquired.

“Oh, gobs of ’em. Few persons though, have gone past the old White
Witch. In fact, it’s part of the legend that she casts a spell upon all
who go beyond that point in the cave.”

“You’ve disproved that part of the legend?” the Girl Scout leader
questioned.

“Well, the old witch cast her spell over me all right,” Bart admitted
with a chuckle. “Not an evil one though. The Cave fascinates me, and if
I had time, I’d really delve into its innermost secrets.”

“Ardeth and I thought we saw a moving light in the cavern late
yesterday afternoon,” Judy remarked. “Maybe you were down there
exploring.”

“Not yesterday,” Bart replied. “You’re certain you saw a light?”

“Oh, yes, it startled us. Either someone was down in the cave, or it
was that old witch!”

“It wasn’t the old witch,” Bart assured her. “She’s a harmless old gal
and has stayed fixed for a thousand years, more or less. I can’t guess
who might be down in the cave, because folks hereabouts seldom venture
in.”

“You spoke of former Calico Cottage renters moving out because of
strange sounds which disturbed them,” Miss Ward reminded the young
milkman. “Can you tell us more about it?”

“Did the other folks ever hear a flute player?” interposed Ardeth.

“Seems to me I heard some such talk.”

“And loud banging noises at night?” demanded Judy.

“I reckon so.”

“Tell us everything!” urged Virginia. “Is Calico Cottage supposed to be
haunted? Is that why Mr. Krumm has trouble keeping his renters?”

“All I know is what I hear,” Bart replied evasively. “I wouldn’t have
told you about the White Witch, only I could tell that you Scouts
aren’t easily scared.”

“Is there any connection between Calico Cottage and the Witch?” Judy
questioned.

“Only as she’s supposed to have cast her spell over the place. The
last tenants had a cat. One night she became scared at some noise and
leaped through a window, shattering the glass. The folks moved out,
came dawn. I know because I met ’em as they were driving away. Tried to
talk ’em into staying, but they were dead set the cottage was haunted.”

“You don’t believe that nonsense yourself?” Miss Ward inquired.

“Nope. I think there’s a logical explanation for the cottage cutting up
the way it does. I’d tip Krumm off if he weren’t such a disagreeable
egg. He took advantage of old Captain Hager in buying the property, and
the townsfolk never quite forgave him.”

“Is Captain Hager still alive?” questioned Ardeth.

“Very much so,” Bart told her. “The old sea dog is edging seventy now,
but he’s as spry as ever. Since Krumm got the old homestead away from
him, he’s lived frugally in a cabin down on the river.”

“The cave, you said, was named for Captain Hager?”

“Yes, it bore his name ever since I can remember. Then Krumm bought all
this property, including the private road and the cave. Right off, he
changed the name to Calico Cave.”

“But why?” inquired Judy.

“Well, he didn’t want the cave to have Captain Hager’s name, for one
thing. There’s no love between them, you know. Then I guess he thought
Hager’s Hole was too closely associated with talk of the White Witch
and death.”

“Death?” Ardeth repeated uneasily.

“One man lost his life in the cave. Another explorer--an amateur--broke
his leg, and a searching party had to bring him out. Not so many months
ago, a group of giddy girls went in without a guide. They lost their
way, and wandered around for several hours before help got to them. The
stories they told around didn’t help any. So Krumm changed the cave
name.”

“I can see that the cavern is no drawing card,” Miss Ward remarked.
“When first I saw the cave sign, I assumed that the place might be a
tourist attraction.”

“It could be,” Bart said seriously. “That cave has everything! Fantastic
formations beyond belief! An underground river, a waterfall, everything
to attract visitors, if facilities could be provided. But Krumm has no
imagination, and he’s too tight to spend a penny developing the cave.
It’s a pity the property ever came into his possession.”

The Scouts had a dozen more questions at the tip of their tongues.
Before they could ask any of them, a familiar automobile drove up,
parking squarely in front of the Cloverleaf milk truck.

Mr. Krumm squeezed out from behind the wheel and walked directly over
to the group. He gazed sharply at Bart, his attitude unfriendly.

“I thought I’d drop by to inquire how you’re getting along,” he said,
ignoring the milkman and bowing to Miss Ward. “You have found the
cottage quite comfortable, I trust?”

“It seems to be very well equipped,” the teacher conceded. “I can’t say
we spent too comfortable a night, though. We were disturbed by strange
sounds.”

“Strange sounds?” The real estate man registered surprise which was not
in the least convincing.

“We heard music, and thumping noises,” Judy supplied. “It seems your
cottage has a ghost.”

“No such thing!” Mr. Krumm indignantly denied. “That’s all bosh! You’ve
been listening to stupid gossip.”

“You should have told us the truth about the cottage before we rented
it,” Miss Ward reproved him mildly. “Judy’s aunt will be coming
shortly, and we hesitate to turn over a place to her that may be
unnerving or possibly unsafe.”

“There’s nothing wrong with the cottage,” Mr. Krumm flared. “You’ve
been talking to Bart Ranieau, and he’s been filling you with hot air!”

“We were asking him about the cottage and likewise about the cave,”
Miss Ward admitted. “If we’re to remain here another night, we want all
the information we can get.”

“I was telling ’em about the White Witch,” Bart interposed to plague
the realtor.

“How many times have I told you to keep your nose out of my affairs?”
Mr. Krumm demanded furiously. “You can’t keep that wagging, clacking
tongue of yours still! You’ve driven away all of my tenants, one by
one.”

“That’s not so, Krumm, and you know it.”

“You fill ’em up with fears about White Witches and such nonsense. I
want no more of it, understand? Furthermore, I want you to keep off my
property. Don’t be snooping around Calico Cave any more!”

“You can’t keep me from exploring,” Bart returned coolly. “You may own
the land, but not what’s below the surface.”

“You stay out of that cave, and away from it,” Mr. Krumm repeated his
order.

Bart grinned provokingly, and without making answer, drove off down the
road.

“That young whippersnapper gets my blood up!” Mr. Krumm asserted after
the milk wagon had vanished around a curve. “I wouldn’t have ordered
him to keep off the property, only he’s become a pest.”

“I take it, you don’t consider the cave safe?” Judy inquired curiously.

“Oh, it’s safe enough, if you don’t wander in too far,” the real estate
man replied with a shrug. “My order doesn’t apply to you folks. If you
want to see the cave, you can go down there any time.”

“I don’t believe I’d care to explore,” Ardeth said with a shiver. “Not
after learning that a man died in the cave.”

“Bart told you about _that_, I suppose?” Mr. Krumm questioned
sarcastically.

“Isn’t it true?”

“Bart didn’t tell you _why_ the man lost his life,” Mr. Krumm said,
without answering the inquiry. “No, he just filled you up with a lot of
nonsense about a White Witch.”

“She doesn’t really cast a spell over the cottage?” Judy asked
mischievously.

Mr. Krumm’s normally florid face became even redder. He sucked in his
breath, moistened his lips, and then launched into another vehement
denial that anything was wrong with Calico Cottage.

“I’m sick of all this gossipy talk!” he ended his tirade. “I’m sick of
losing tenants! I’m so weary of it, that I’m willing to pay good money
to disprove all the contemptible stories.”

The Scouts remained respectfully silent.

“Bart has convinced you, I suppose, that you should move out,” Mr.
Krumm went on. Without giving anyone an opportunity to deny the
statement, he continued: “All right, suppose I admit that former
tenants have complained about the cottage having strange noises at
night? There must be an explanation for it--a logical, sensible one.”

“We’ll go along with you on that theory,” Miss Ward replied. “You have
a proposition, Mr. Krumm?”

“Yes, I have. It’s all bunk about Calico Cave or the cottage having a
ghost. If you’ll stay here for two weeks, and disprove the story, I’ll
refund your rent payment. What d’you say?”

Ardeth, Virginia and Judy gazed questioningly at their leader, awaiting
her decision.

“We would prefer a rent refund with no strings attached,” the teacher
suggested.

“Sorry, I can’t do that. After all, I’m not in business for my health.
This cottage has been an expensive proposition. What do you say?”

“We’ll consider your offer,” Miss Ward said quietly. “We’ll remain for
another night and make our decision after that. However, if we do make
the test, it will not be for commercial reasons, but only to safeguard
Judy’s aunt.”




_Chapter 7_

THE TREASURE BOX


Pine Cone Camp seemed strangely deserted when Miss Ward, Ardeth, Judy
and Virginia arrived there at nine o’clock in the station wagon.

Seeking the tent which had been assigned to the Beaver Patrol unit, the
new arrivals found it quite deserted.

“Where is everyone?” Ardeth asked in perplexity. “Surely not on a hike
so early?”

Swimming suits hung on the clothes lines, attesting to the fact that
the campers already had enjoyed an early morning plunge in Morning
Glory Lake.

“Look!” Judy suddenly cried, pointing toward a cleared area some
distance away at the edge of the forest. “Everyone is over there! Let’s
see what’s doing.”

Hurrying over to the group, the girls could not at first discern what
it was that had drawn the interest of the entire camp.

Gradually, however, they edged deeper into the assembly and saw that
the other Scouts were taking turns peering into a large wooden box,
covered with a wire screen.

“What in the world?” Virginia speculated.

Just then Beverly, Kathleen and Betty caught sight of their patrol
mates in the crowd, and joined them. Judy asked the cause of the
excitement.

“Oh, you girls have missed all the fun, being stuck down there at
Calico Cottage,” Kathleen told her. “We’ve started a treasure box.”

“What is that?”

“Look in it and you’ll see!”

The other Scouts moved aside to make way for Judy and the newcomers.
Gazing into the box, they were amazed to see all manner of strange
animals and insects.

“It’s a nature treasure chest!” Kathleen informed her friends. “We
already have a mouse, a spider, and three varieties of turtles. Each
patrol is supposed to contribute an animal, bird or unusual insect.”

“Does Beaver Patrol have an entry?” Judy asked.

“Not yet. Beverly very nearly caught a little chipmunk, but he eluded
her. We’re depending upon you girls to help us.”

“We will,” Ardeth promised. “Just give us time to get our thoughts
adjusted, and we’ll come up with a prize winner.”

“There are to be no duplications,” Kathleen warned. “All the patrols
are working on it, so we’ll have to get busy.”

“How about a little garter snake?” suggested Ardeth thoughtfully.

“If Beaver Patrol goes for that, you’ll have to produce the snake,”
Kathleen replied with a shudder. “No snakes for me!”

“I vote we put Ardeth in charge of finding a patrol entry for the
treasure box,” proposed Betty Bache, who had joined the other girls.
“She’ll get a big boot out of the job.”

“I’ll be glad to take it over,” Ardeth offered, for she thoroughly
enjoyed the study of nature and had no fear of animals or insects.

“Good!” Kathleen approved. “That takes a load off my mind.”

The blowing of a bugle summoned all the campers to assembly. Miss
Lubell waited until all the Scouts had gathered, and then signalled for
silence. It was evident that she had a most important announcement.

“Girls,” she began, “we had planned a hike to Indian Falls this
morning, but it will be necessary to make a change.”

A chorus of groans met this announcement, for the girls had looked
forward to the outing and outdoor cookery.

“However, we have other interesting plans,” the director went on
quickly. “The Civil Air Patrol has notified me that it can make a plane
available for the first-aid and exploration excursion I mentioned
earlier. But today is the only time the Service will be able to
cooperate. Accordingly, we’ve decided to go ahead. All patrols desiring
to compete, should sign up at once. Your counselors will provide full
details.”

The girls were informed that at ten o’clock all competing patrols would
hike a quarter of a mile to Flat Top, an area relatively level and
clear of trees.

According to the plan, a Civil Air Patrol plane would fly over the
section to drop a message which would give Scouts notification of a
fake plane crash. The general location of the accident likewise would
be given. Starting with equal information, the units were expected to
separate and compete in trying to be the first to reach the designated
locality.

Once there, the Scouts were to give first aid treatment to the
imaginary victims, and proceed exactly as if the accident were a real
one. Three girls from the Garden City Patrol had volunteered to act as
the injured passengers of the plane crash. Notes would be pinned to
their clothing, stating the nature of their supposed injuries.

Kathleen, Judy, Betty and Beverly teamed up as one exploring unit,
representing Beaver Patrol. Ardeth and Virginia decided not to enter
the competition, preferring to remain behind to search for a suitable
wild pet to add to the treasure box collection.

Shortly after ten o’clock, the representatives of seven patrols were
encamped on the table top, anxiously scanning the sky for a glimpse of
the expected plane. All the girls had dressed sensibly in heavy shirts,
slacks and stout climbing boots. Faces and necks were protected from
the sun, but even so, the rays bore fiercely down upon their backs as
they sat impatiently waiting.

“Won’t that plane ever come?” Beverly fretted, wiping perspiration from
her neck. “We’ve been here an age now!”

“Only ten minutes,” Kathleen corrected.

“Well, it seems a year. Maybe there’s been a mix-up about plans,”
Beverly went on. “I wish I’d stayed in camp. This trip will be hard and
tiring.”

“Good experience though,” Judy said, continuing to scan the azure,
almost cloudless sky. “It will be a test of skill to find our way to
the right place, administer first aid, make improvised litters and
carry our victims to help.”

“I hope we’re the first to get there,” Kathleen declared. “So far,
Beaver Patrol hasn’t shown up too well in the camp competitions. That’s
because all of the girls haven’t been together, especially in the
evening. This is our chance.”

Judy suddenly sprang to her feet. She had been the first in the group
to sight the Civil Air Patrol plane winging in from the east.

“Here it comes!” she cried. “They’ll be dropping a message in a moment.
Watch sharp!”

All of the patrols now were alert and ready. The Scouts who had
equipped themselves with field glasses, trained them on the approaching
plane.

Its wings flashing in the sunlight, the ship came in low enough for the
girls to see the forms of the pilot and his passenger. Three times the
plane circled the tableland. Then on the fourth trip over, the message
tube was dropped.

It missed the open table top by twenty feet, landing amid the trees and
brush just below where the Beaver Patrol girls had taken their stand.

“Come on,” Judy shouted, starting off at a run. “I saw where it
dropped!”

There was a mad scramble to see who would be the first to reach
the message tube. According to the rules of the competition, the
directions, once read, could not be kept, but must be left behind for
other patrols.

Plunging through the underbrush, Judy was the first to seize upon the
shining metal tube. As she opened it to remove the message which had
been folded within, Beverly, Kathleen and Betty crowded close to read
the directions.

“Plane crash at 9:48 a.m. on Hermit’s Ridge,” Kathleen discerned the
writing. “Three passengers in need of help.”

“Hermit’s Ridge!” Beverly explained. “Where is that?”

Judy already was consulting her map of the region.

“You might know it’s a difficult climb from here!” she exclaimed. “We
have several choices of a route. We can take the short, hard climb--no
trail. That way, it looks to be approximately a mile and a half from
here.”

“What are the other choices?” Kathleen questioned.

“We can follow the main highway three quarters of the way, and then
make a short climb on Lone Pine Trail. Our third choice is to descend
from here to Rocky Point Path and keep on it all the way.”

“I’m for taking the shortest route even if it will mean a harder
climb,” Beverly said at once. “Let’s go!”

“Hold on,” Judy directed, continuing to study the map. “I’m in favor
of the road myself. It may be longer, but it’s a lot faster, easier
walking most of the way.”

“Furthermore, we may be able to catch a ride part of the distance,”
Kathleen added. “That would be within the rules. The patrol wins that
gets first to Hermit’s Ridge and accomplishes its first aid mission.”

“I’m in favor of the road too,” Betty Bache asserted, siding with
Kathleen and Judy. “The various choice of routes is a test of
judgment as well as endurance.”

Leaving the message for the other patrols to read, the four girls
quickly descended rugged terrain to the paved highway.

“I think we’re making a mistake,” Beverly insisted, shifting her
first-aid kit to a more comfortable carrying position. “Not many cars
pass on the road at this time of day. The distance is much longer.”

“We can dog-trot part of it,” Judy said, beginning to lope along.
“Anyway, we’re well out ahead of the others!”

“I can see another group starting out,” Beverly reported looking back.
“They chose the short, hard way.”

“Since we’re out ahead, that might be their only chance to beat us,”
Betty reasoned. “I still think we chose the better, faster route.”

Alternately, the girls dog-trotted twenty steps and then walked the
same number. In that manner, they did not tire so easily or lose breath.

The road wound on through the forest in dips and sharp ascents. They
kept going, ignoring the heat of the sun and their own increasing
weariness.

“I’m glad we didn’t take the hard climb,” Judy commented as she and
Kathleen paused a moment to wait for Betty and Beverly to catch up.
“The going will be tough enough before we reach Hermit’s Ridge.”

At the next sharp bend in the highway, the Scouts were able to look
down at the table top some distance below. Not a single patrol seemed
to have followed them.

“I knew it!” Beverly exclaimed. “All the others have taken the shorter
routes!”

“Let them,” Judy replied cheerfully. “It hasn’t been proven yet that
our judgment was poor. We’ve been making fast time.”

“We haven’t caught that ride yet,” Beverly reminded her. “Not a single
car has passed us on the road. And we’ve met only one truck.”

Resting only momentarily, the four went on, doggedly determined to be
the first to reach Hermit’s Ridge. Soon they lost all view of their
competitors who had been swallowed up by the dense forest foliage.

“Say, I think I hear a truck coming now!” Betty presently exclaimed.
She paused to cock an attentive ear. “Wow! It’s coming fast, burning up
the road!”

“We’ll never flag down that driver!” Judy exclaimed, moving hastily off
the pavement.

The heavy freight carrier roared past the girls, its massive tires
screaming as it went around a bend.

“What does that driver think this road is--a speedway?” Beverly
demanded. “Why, it’s dangerous--”

The four hikers halted abruptly, frozen by the fearful sound of
screeching brakes. They could not see beyond the next sharp curve, but
the sickening thud was unmistakable. The speeding truck had missed its
turn and had skidded off the road!




_Chapter 8_

VALUABLE CARGO


Rounding the bend at a run, the four Scouts saw that the big truck had
missed plunging over the ravine by mere inches.

The heavily loaded vehicle had skidded wildly, bringing up at a sharp
angle against a rocky embankment. Shattered glass lay on the pavement.

Judy was the first to reach the tilted truck cab. She could not at
first get the jammed door open, but suddenly it gave, swinging back so
hard, she nearly was thrown off balance.

The driver was slumped over the wheel, stunned and bleeding from flesh
cuts. He was a heavy-set man with a beak-like nose and square jaw
which sagged to give him a stupid appearance. His eyes were glazed and
unseeing.

The only other occupant of the truck, a thin man with two front teeth
missing, sprawled half off the seat, moaning and using foul language.

“My neck!” he screamed. “It’s like killing me! Don’t stand there! Do
something! Get a doctor!”

He pulled himself out of the cab, pushing angrily at Kathleen when she
tried to help him. Despite the rebuff she took his arm to steady him.

“Don’t touch me! Get away!” he screamed, staggering. Kathleen caught a
whiff of his breath then and knew that he had been drinking. She noted
that his right arm hung limp and that the right shoulder was much lower
than the left. He had grasped it at the elbow to provide support.

“You can’t raise your arm above your shoulder, can you?” she demanded.
“Your collar bone must be fractured.”

“So what?” the trucker demanded savagely. He leaned weakly against the
truck, ignoring her efforts to be of help.

Meanwhile, Judy, Beverly and Betty had devoted their attention to
the truck driver, who appeared in more serious condition than the
disagreeable passenger.

Carefully, they stretched him out flat on the cab seat.

“He may be only stunned,” Judy said anxiously. “The first thing is to
get the blood stopped. No artery has been cut fortunately.”

The blood came from two facial cuts and a wrist which had been slashed
by flying glass. Judy removed a tiny splinter of glass from the latter
wound, treated the cut with antiseptic, placed a compress over the
opening and bandaged it tightly.

That job done, the girls bandaged the driver’s face, noting with
relief that he seemed to be recovering from shock. Now and then he
moaned in pain as they worked deftly and efficiently, but for the most
part he eyed them silently.

Kathleen, on the other hand, was having a most trying time with her
patient, who refused to cooperate. He would not lie down or let her
examine his neck.

“I can’t do anything with him,” she whispered to Judy. “I’m sure he has
a fractured collar bone. But what to do about it? He’s acting like a
maniac.”

“Delirious?”

“He’s just a mean character,” Kathleen muttered in an undertone. “I’m
sort of scared.”

“Scared? Why?”

“He has a revolver in his back pocket.”

“Maybe he carries it to protect the cargo,” Judy replied. “Let’s see
what we can do about that collar bone.”

Moving over to the sullen trucker, who stood leaning against the tilted
vehicle, she addressed him quietly but firmly.

“You’ll feel more comfortable if you sit or lie down. We’ll help you--”

“I don’t want any help.” The trucker’s lips parted in an ugly snarl
which revealed his missing front teeth. “You got a car?”

“No, we’re Girl Scouts on a hike.”

“Girl Scouts! A lot of help you’ll be!”

Judy ignored the sarcasm, noting how limply the trucker’s right arm
hung.

“We can help,” she insisted. “Your collar bone has been broken, I
think.”

“So what?” the trucker demanded belligerently. “I’m worried about this
truck. We can never move it out of this--have to abandon it.”

“You should be able to get a wrecker from the village. Now about that
collar bone--”

“Forget it, I said.” The man’s gaze roved toward the cab of the truck
where Betty and Beverly were covering the driver with coats.

“Is Joe done for?” he demanded with cold rather than friendly concern.

“He’s more stunned than hurt, I think,” Judy replied.

“Can’t he make it on his own pins? We gotta get out o’ here.”

“He shouldn’t try to walk. We’ll bring help to you as fast as we can.
First, though, you must take a sensible attitude and let us wrap that
collar bone. You’ll be far more comfortable until we can get you a
doctor.”

“Okay,” the trucker suddenly consented. “Make it snappy though, and
don’t hurt me or I’ll bash you in! I ain’t in no mood to be worked over
by amateurs.”

Having cajoled the man into a more cooperative mood, Judy went quickly
to work. With Kathleen helping, she utilized a triangular bandage as a
sling for the right arm, tying it snugly to the side of his body with a
cravat bandage.

“Humph!” the trucker muttered, not displeased as he surveyed the
finished job. “Not too bad.”

“The important thing now is to get you both to a doctor,” Judy said
briskly. “Cars pass rather infrequently on this road. Kathleen and I
will go for help while Beverly and Betty stay here to do what they can.”

“You’ve done enough now,” the trucker returned. “Thanks, kids! Now all
of you beat it--on your way.”

“We’ll have a wrecker sent,” Judy went on, gathering up her first aid
equipment.

“Don’t bother.”

“But we’ll be glad to do it,” Judy insisted. “It’s part of our Scout
training to help when we can.”

“Yeah? Cut out the chatter and clear out!” The trucker glowered at the
girls, and dropped his left hand to his hip pocket. “Get out I said!”

Frightened by the hostile attitude of the man, Beverly and Betty
snatched up their first aid kits, and started hurriedly off the way
they had come. Kathleen and Judy were more deliberate in making their
departure. However, knowing that the trucker had a revolver, they were
in no mood to argue with him.

Once beyond the first bend in the road, the four girls excitedly
discussed the situation.

“That’s all the thanks we get for helping!” Beverly said furiously.
“We’ve lost out on the Hermit Ridge competition too--worse luck.”

“I guess there’s more to this first aid business than just wrapping up
broken bones!” Betty added. “One has to learn how to handle half-crazy
patients.”

“I can’t understand why that man was so eager to get us away,” Judy
remarked thoughtfully. “Normally, anyone in similar plight would
welcome help. Why wouldn’t he want us to send a doctor or a wrecker?”

“Just out of his head, I guess,” Beverly shrugged.

“On the contrary,” Judy insisted, “he seemed quite cool about the
entire procedure. You know, I wonder what sort of cargo those men were
carrying?”

“It must have been valuable,” Kathleen replied. “Otherwise, why would
he carry a revolver for protection?”

Keyed up by the encounter with the two men, but decidedly discouraged
over the outcome of their efforts, the girls hiked as fast as they
could down the mountain road. Despite the order that they were not to
send help, they planned to do so.

“Doesn’t a car ever come on this road?” Beverly complained after they
had hiked ten minutes without meeting or being passed by an automobile
or a truck.

“I see a car coming now!” Kathleen suddenly cried. “From the direction
of the village.”

“Say, we’re in luck!” exclaimed Judy, abruptly halting. “It’s a state
highway patrol car!”

Waiting, the girls flagged the automobile to a stop. Quickly, they
told the two patrolmen of the accident and of the strange behavior of
the truckers who had rejected assistance.

“Did you notice the license number of the truck?” one of the highway
patrolmen asked.

None of the Scouts had made a note of it.

“We were too busy wrapping up wounds to think of that,” Judy confessed.

The patrolmen next inquired if the girls could describe the two
truckers.

“Oh, yes!” Kathleen said eagerly. “The passenger was a thin fellow
with two teeth missing. He had dark bushy eyebrows and was very
disagreeable.”

“That was Ben Vodner, I’ll bet a cent!” one of the patrolmen exclaimed.
“Did he have a scar on his left cheek?”

“Yes, he did!” Judy recalled. “A long jagged white mark!”

“What did the other man look like?”

“His most prominent feature was a large hooked nose,” Judy described
him. “He was a large man, heavy-set and with a square jaw. I’d say he
weighed about two hundred pounds--”

“That’s Joe Pompilli for sure!”

“Who is he?” Kathleen demanded.

“Joe’s the ring leader of a bunch of hi-jackers,” one of the patrolmen
informed her. “Off and on for the last six months, he and his boys have
been hi-jacking cargo and taking it through here right under the noses
of the forest rangers.”

“So that was why they didn’t want help!” Judy exclaimed. “That truck
that went off the road was loaded with stolen cargo!”

Taking the girls into the patrol car, the two patrolmen proceeded with
all speed toward the scene of the accident.

“It’s just around the next bend,” Judy informed the driver.

“Then I’ll let you girls out here,” he said, pulling up at the side of
the road. “There may be shooting. Stay back until we see what’s what.”

Piling out of the car, the Scouts waited until the patrolmen had driven
on. Then, they rounded the bend, tense and expectant.

The truck remained in the ditch where last they had seen it, but
neither of the injured men were anywhere visible.

Watching from a safe distance, the girls saw the patrolmen carefully
search the truck cab.

“Those two hi-jackers have fled!” Judy exclaimed. “I guess they weren’t
as badly hurt as we thought!”

At a run, the Scouts raced up the road to join the patrolmen, who by
this time had broken open the door lock on the back of the truck.

“Just as I thought,” one of the searchers declared as he swung open the
double doors. “Stolen auto tires!”

“Tires snatched from the Graystone Transport Co. The truck was held up
early this morning across the state line.”

Judy and her friends were bewildered with respect to what had happened
to the two accident victims. They were not long in doubt however, for
tire marks on the pavement showed plainly that a car had come along,
turned on the roadway, and returned in the same direction whence it had
come.

“Ben Vodner must have stopped the driver and made him take him and his
pal, Joe, to town,” the patrolman commented. “They’re likely heading
for Brady City, over the state line. There’s a slim chance we can
overtake ’em.”

Knowing that the wild chase might end in a gun battle, the patrolmen
told the Scouts they could not take them along.

“Catch a ride back to your camp,” one of the men advised Judy as he
prepared to drive away. “We’ll let you know later how this comes out.
If we overtake those hi-jackers, we may need you to testify. If they
get away, you want to steer clear of them. Joe and Ben are mighty tough
boys, and they’ll bear you no gratitude for the help you gave them
today!”




_Chapter 9_

“IS JOE THERE?”


All that day, Pine Cone Camp buzzed with the exciting story of how the
four Beaver Patrol Scouts had given first aid to the two notorious
hi-jackers.

Judy, Beverly, Betty and Kathleen were subjected to a great deal of
teasing. The other campers, to plague them declared that their timely
assistance had made it easier for the truckers to escape.

That the two men had made a successful getaway was confirmed late in
the afternoon. Two state highway patrolmen, Clinton DeWitt and George
Franey, dropped around at Pine Cone Camp purposely to inform Judy and
her friends that the identity of the hi-jackers tentatively had been
established.

“We’re quite sure those two truckers were Joe Pompilli and Ben Vodner,”
the girls were told. “They stopped a car and made the driver give them
a lift. At gun point, they forced him to take them across the state
line. Finally, on a side road, miles from a telephone, they abandoned
the driver and continued on their way.”

“Joe and his pal probably will give this area a wide berth for
awhile,” the other patrolman added. “You never can tell though.”

“That’s right,” agreed George Franey. “They’re daring outlaws, well
organized. Joe Pompilli won’t abandon this run because of one mishap.
But we’ll be watching for him!”

As was to be expected, Judy, Beverly, Betty and Kathleen, were regarded
somewhat as heroines by their camp mates. Many times they were called
upon to recite their adventures on the lonely mountain road.

“We’ve given a bandage-by-bandage report so many times I’m beginning to
embellish the details,” Judy laughed as she told the story for perhaps
the twelfth time. “That thin fellow the patrolmen called Ben was a mean
sort of individual. He didn’t actually threaten us with his gun though.”

“The worst of it was that we lost out in the Hermit Ridge competition,”
added Kathleen ruefully. “I’m afraid we’ll have to depend on Ardeth and
Virginia to win points for our patrol.”

She smiled at the other two, who had spent most of the morning
searching for a suitable specimen to add to the nature treasure chest.

Both girls were sunburned and discouraged. True, they had captured an
unwary bull frog and a rare type of water insect, but only to learn
that other units had made similar entries during their absence from
camp.

“So now to qualify, we’ll have to find something different,” Ardeth
asserted. “I’m sick about it.”

“Oh, we’ll get an entry before the deadline,” Judy said cheerfully.

“We have several days to work on it,” added Kathleen.

“The other campers have combed the lake and the area around here so
thoroughly that it will be hard to find anything unusual,” Ardeth
insisted with a shake of her head. “All of the common things such as
worms, bugs, and bees, have been used too!”

“Maybe we can find an entry while we’re at Calico Cottage,” Kathleen
suggested. “The woods near the cave haven’t been explored.”

“We might enter the Cottage ghost!” Judy said with a chuckle. “If we
could capture him, we’d be entitled to first prize!”

“By the way, have you heard from your aunt?” Ardeth inquired.

Judy nodded and displayed a telegram which she carried in her pocket.
“This came in the morning delivery from town,” she explained. “Aunt
Mattie will arrive on the 2:10 p.m. train tomorrow.”

“Have you told her about the cottage having a ghost?”

“No, and I’m not eager to either,” Judy returned with a grimace. “Aunt
Mattie might make a dreadful fuss. I wish we could clear up the mystery
before she gets here.”

“We have tonight to work on it,” Kathleen remarked thoughtfully. “If
only we could get down into the cottage basement! It wouldn’t do
though, to break the door lock.”

“Hardly,” Judy agreed. “Mr. Krumm would have a just complaint then!”

Though the Beaver Patrol girls made light of the “ghost” and the
strange flute music which had disturbed their slumbers at the cottage,
they were determined to find a logical explanation for the occurrence.

Judy and her friends had said very little about the mysterious
happening, but the story had leaked out and greatly enlarged in
the telling. Throughout the afternoon, the girls were besieged by
questions. Their rivals in the Lone Tree unit seemed especially
interested.

“We’re certainly the target of attention,” Judy remarked to Kathleen.
“I can’t understand why the Lone Tree girls are so fascinated by every
detail. Something’s in the wind!”

The Beaver Patrol members remained at camp for dinner and to enjoy a
ceremonial camp fire which wound up with the telling of ghost stories.
At nine o’clock, the station wagon took Judy, Kathleen, Miss Ward,
Ardeth and Virginia to Calico Cottage for the night.

“We’ll have our tent by tomorrow, I’m quite sure,” Miss Ward told the
girls as they let themselves into the dark cottage. “That will be a
relief.”

“I don’t mind being here,” Virginia asserted. “In fact, I think it’s
exciting! Do you suppose we’ll hear that flute player tonight?”

“We will if we keep dwelling upon it,” Miss Ward replied as she
switched on the lights. “The mind, you know, plays strange tricks. Now
everyone to bed, and no nonsense.”

Rather soberly, the girls went to their rooms. Because Miss Ward
was with them, they had no fear of spending a night in the cottage.
Nevertheless, they were somewhat tense with expectancy.

Ardeth was removing a shoe, when suddenly she stiffened. “Listen!” she
directed. “What was that?”

“I heard nothing,” returned Virginia.

“I thought I heard a thumping sound in the cellar,” Ardeth insisted in
a hushed voice.

“That was your own heart pounding, goose!” teased Kathleen. “Jump into
bed, and stop imagining things.”

Ardeth obediently turned off the bedroom light. Going to the window,
she opened it, and stood for a moment, gazing toward the dark forest
which edged ominously close to the cottage lawn.

“Kathleen! Virginia!” she summoned the others, drawing in her breath.

“Now what?” Kathleen demanded.

“Come here, quick! Tell me what you see.” Dramatically, Ardeth pointed
toward the towering trees.

Virginia went quickly to the window, peering in the direction
indicated. She stood silent and tense, scarcely believing her own
eyesight.

“It’s--it’s something white, and it moves!” she exclaimed.

Kathleen had joined the other two. Ardeth gripped her hand so tightly
it hurt. “I’m scared,” she confessed shakily. “What do you think,
Kathy?”

“I’ll call Miss Ward and Judy.”

Quickly, she summoned the other two from the next bedroom. Neither had
started to disrobe for the night. For several minutes the five stood
at the darkened window, gazing out across the sloping lawn to the dark
backdrop of trees.

Plainly they could see a white object moving lazily back and forth
against a curtain of foliage. A nearly full moon added to the eerie
effect, casting a ghostly light over the lonely forest area.

“A spook!” Ardeth declared shakily. “It’s coming this way too!”

“No such thing,” Miss Ward corrected in a firm voice. “Whatever
the object may be, it is not moving in this direction. I’ll get my
flashlight and investigate.”

“I’ll go with you,” Judy offered.

Putting on warm jackets, the two slipped out of the cottage. The night
was chilly, for a light breeze blew from the direction of the river.

Judy and the teacher focused their eyes on the white object at the
edge of the woods. Though it continued to move lazily, its basic
position did not seem to change.

“Keep well behind me, Judy,” Miss Ward directed as they drew near the
trees. “I doubt that there is any serious cause for alarm, but it’s
wise to proceed cautiously.”

Having decided upon a bold approach, the pair moved directly toward the
white object.

When they were within a few yards of it, Miss Ward switched on the
flashlight. She directed the beam squarely upon the fluttering “ghost.”

“Why, it looks like a bed sheet!” Judy exclaimed, and burst into
relieved laughter.

“A sheet attached to a bush!” added Miss Ward. “Let’s find out about
this.”

She held the light while Judy removed the sheet from the foliage. To
prevent it from blowing away, two ends had been tied to the branches
with cord.

“This ‘ghost’ was put here purposely!” Judy declared. “By whom, I
wonder?”

“Any marking on the linen?”

Judy inspected the sheet under the light. “Here are some initials
stamped on the edge!” she exclaimed. “‘P.C.C.’”

“Pine Cone Camp!”

“Well, if that isn’t a good joke on us!” Judy laughed. “The girls at
camp decided to produce that ghost we were telling them about! Beverly
and Betty may have pulled this one!”

“They were in camp all afternoon, Judy.”

“That’s true. Maybe some of the Lone Tree Scouts did it then! One of
their girls has been asking a lot of questions about Calico Cottage.”

“I don’t mind a bit of good fun,” Miss Ward said, folding the sheet.
“On the other hand, I’m not in favor of making too much of this ghost
talk. I think I’ll discuss the matter with Miss Lubell tomorrow.”

“I hope whoever played the trick won’t get into trouble. I’m sure it
was all in good fun.”

“Oh, no one will receive a reprimand,” Miss Ward promised. “I’ll find
out which girls had camp leave this afternoon. If it develops that any
of them played the trick, I’ll ask them not to repeat it, that’s all.”

When the two returned to the cottage with the bed sheet, Virginia,
Ardeth and Kathleen anxiously met them at the door.

“Here’s your ghost!” Judy laughed, tossing the camp linen into
Kathleen’s arms. “Look at the initials!”

“So that’s why those Lone Tree Scouts were giggling and carrying
on this afternoon!” Kathleen exclaimed after she had examined the
markings. “Several of them asked for camp leave too!”

“Then my idea about that probably was right,” Miss Ward said.

Greatly relieved that the ghost scare had no serious aspects, the
Scouts discussed the prank for a few minutes, and then went to bed. It
was a long while, however, before the house finally settled down.

Judy fell quickly asleep. How long she slumbered she had no way of
knowing. But suddenly, she found herself wide awake.

Miss Ward, she noted, was sleeping soundly beside her.

Wondering what had disturbed her, Judy sat up. Moonlight streamed into
the bedroom. She judged that it could not be later than midnight or
possibly one o’clock.

The telephone was ringing.

“So that’s what awakened me!” Judy thought, leaping out of bed. “Wonder
who can be calling at this time of night?”

The phone call, she thought, might be from Pine Cone Camp. Something
might have happened to Betty or Beverly. Or possibly it was a message
from Aunt Mattie.

In her haste to reach the telephone before it stopped ringing, Judy
bumped against a chair. Nursing a bruised knee, she hobbled on.

As she took down the receiver to say “hello,” a gruff voice came over
the line.

“Time you answered! Is Joe there?”

“Joe?” faltered Judy. “Joe who?”

Only silence gave reply. Then the wire went completely dead. The
speaker at the other end of the line had hung up.




_Chapter 10_

A MIDNIGHT DISTURBANCE


As Judy hung up the telephone receiver, the light suddenly was
switched on behind her. Startled, she whirled around with a smothered
exclamation of alarm.

“I didn’t mean to frighten you, Judy.” It was Kathleen who stood in the
doorway, a corduroy robe flung over her shoulders. “I heard someone
moving around, and thought I’d check, that’s all. Is anything wrong?”

“The phone was ringing. I--I don’t know what to make of it.”

“Who was it that called, Judy?”

“That’s the point. I don’t know. Someone asked for Joe.”

“Joe? Joe who?”

“That’s exactly what I asked, Kathleen. The only Joe I know is that
dreadful Joe Pompilli.”

“Someone must have called the wrong number.”

“I guess so,” Judy admitted doubtfully. “It gave me an ugly start
though. What time is it?”

“A little past midnight,” Kathleen said, looking at her wristwatch.
“What a night! All we need to make it complete is a little flute music!”

The switching on of a light had disturbed the others in the cottage.
Miss Ward came in from the bedroom and then Virginia and Ardeth, the
latter groggy with sleep.

“What now?” she mumbled. “Another ghost?”

Judy explained about the telephone.

“Those Lone Tree Scouts!” Virginia exclaimed indignantly. “They’re
playing another joke on us! Trying to pretend that Joe Pompilli is
calling!”

“It wasn’t anyone from Pine Cone Camp,” Judy said, her face serious.
“Whoever called was a man.”

“It must have been someone who dialed a wrong number,” Kathleen
insisted. “I’m in favor of forgetting the whole business, and going to
bed. If we don’t get some sleep we’ll all be wrecks tomorrow.”

“That’s sound advice,” approved Miss Ward. “To bed everyone!”

All the girls were up at seven o’clock the next morning, feeling little
the worse for the excitement of the night. While the Scouts were
washing the breakfast dishes, the telephone rang again.

“You get it, Judy,” Virginia directed with a giggle. “It’s probably
from Joe.”

“From Aunt Mattie more than likely,” Judy replied, moving hastily to
the telephone.

The message was from Miss Lubell at Pine Cone Camp. She asked Judy
to tell Miss Ward that the station wagon driver had been delayed that
morning and could not call for the girls until ten thirty.

“This means we’ll have considerable free time on our hands,” Judy
remarked as she relayed the information to the others.

“Let’s explore the river area, and maybe around the cave,” proposed
Ardeth. “I want to find an insect or an animal we can enter in the
nature treasure chest.”

“We’ll all go,” Miss Ward decided.

The work already had been finished. Locking the cottage, the five
struck off down the private road. After it dead-ended, they went on
across the silvery-gray rocks and through a stretch of sand to the
river.

Beyond the ribbon of blue water, the mountains rose in jagged green
peaks. A ranger station was visible on one of the high slopes, set in a
cleared area among the trees.

A half-rotted dock extended for some distance out into the stream. The
girls noticed an elderly man in blue overalls tying up his rowboat
after a fishing expedition.

“Good morning,” Judy said pleasantly as the girls wandered over. “How’s
the fishing?”

Straightening up, the old man shoved a soiled white cap at a rakish
angle over his shaggy white hair.

“Mornin’ to you,” he greeted the girls jovially. “The
fishin’? Nary a bite! Blast my timbers, it’s a waste of a man’s time to
blister his skin out in the sun on this old river. I’m slingin’ my hook
for today.”

Moving stiffly, the elderly man began to unload his fishing equipment
from the boat. Judy and Kathleen reached down to help him.

“Right handy mates ye be,” he remarked, well pleased by their
attention. “Don’t recollect seein’ you gals hereabouts before.
Tourists?”

“We’re Girl Scouts,” Judy explained. “We’re staying at Pine Cone Camp.
Because of a mix-up there over reservations, some of us have been
sleeping at Calico Cottage.”

“Calico Cottage? Well, bash my binnacles!”

“It’s a lovely cottage,” Ardeth contributed. “The only trouble is, it
seems to have a ghost.”

“A musical ghost who plays a flute at night,” added Virginia.

“You don’t say! A ghost!” The old man gave a throaty chuckle and then
laughed so hard that his sizeable stomach rolled up and down under the
overalls. “I’ll be a son of a sea cook! That’s a good joke on Krumm!”

“It’s not so much fun for us though,” Judy declared earnestly. “We’re
turning the cottage over to my aunt this afternoon. She’s inclined to
be nervous. We’d hoped to clear up the mystery before she arrived, but
that seems out of the question now.”

“Don’t waste any time worrying about that ghost,” the old man advised.
“A bunch o’ Girl Scouts ought to be smart enough to get to wind’ard of
any flute-playin’ spook.”

“It would seem that way,” agreed Judy. “So far, though, we’ve had no
luck. By the way, you’re not Captain Hager by any chance?”

“That’s my name, but not by chance! Captain Humphrey Hager, formerly
master of the good ship _Elaine_. I’ve been in dry dock going on ten
years now.”

“We’re glad to meet you,” Judy declared cordially. She introduced Miss
Ward and the girls, and then added: “Bart Ranieau told us that you once
owned Calico Cottage--or rather, the old homestead that stood on the
same foundation.”

“That’s right,” Old Captain Hager agreed, his leathery face wrinkling
into a scowl. “I found myself in low water, financially speaking. That
blasted, penny-squeezin’ Krumm kept pestering me, until finally I sold
him the place.”

“Tell us, Captain Hager,” urged Kathleen, “did the house have a ghost
when you lived there?”

A knowing smile overspread the old man’s face. “Well, yes, and no,” he
said. “I advised Krumm to put in a new foundation, but he let me know
he would do it his own way. So now he has a ghost! Ha!”

“Does the old foundation have anything to do with the ghost?” Virginia
asked, looking puzzled.

Old Captain Hager acted as if he had not heard the question. He fussed
with the painter of the rowboat for a moment, and then remarked offhand:

“So you gals have met Bart Ranieau? Now there’s a fine lad, smart as a
whip and with the courage of a young lion. He told you about Hager’s
Hole?”

“Calico Cave?” inquired Judy.

“Hager’s Hole,” the old man repeated. “I don’t take stock of that new
fancy name Krumm tacked on. Bart told you about his father losing his
life in the cave?”

“Why no!” exclaimed Judy.

“He did say something about an explorer trying to find the cave’s exit,
and never being heard of again,” Virginia added.

“That was Bart’s father,” the Captain informed her. “His son’s a chip
off the old block. Lots of sand in the craw! Bart’s trying to work his
way through college by peddlin’ milk. Aye, he’s an up and comer!”

“How did Bart’s father lose his life?” Miss Ward inquired.

The old captain’s gaze swept the river and lifted to fasten
thoughtfully upon the dark entranceway of Calico Cave.

“No one knows,” he replied. “Not for sure. Folks say though, that it
was the siphon that did for him.”

“What’s a siphon?” demanded Kathleen.

“Hager’s Hole has an underground river,” he related. “Where it empties
no one knows. Deep in the cave is a grotto, so beautiful it will blast
your eyes! The underground stream must have hollowed it out ages ago,
then bored its way on through the rock.

“By wading waist-deep and finally neck-deep in water one can follow
the river for awhile. Then the ceiling dips until water and roof meet.
That’s your siphon.”

“A stretch of water between the rocks, with no roof space above?” Judy
questioned.

“Aye.”

“Bart’s father tried to go through the siphon?” Miss Ward inquired
soberly.

“He knew he was risking his life, but spelunkers don’t have good sense
when it comes to explorin’ caves. Bart’s father was obsessed with the
idea he had to find the exit to Hager’s Hole. He gambled his life,
figuring he could dive through the siphon and find an air space beyond.”

“No one ever learned for certain what became of Mr. Ranieau?” The
question was asked by Judy who sat cross-legged on the dock, listening
intently to every word of the story.

“His clothes were found in the grotto, tied in a neat bundle. That’s
all that ever was known. A watch was kept at the siphon for days, but
there never was a sound or a signal of any kind. That was a long while
ago, and now Bart’s sailin’ the same course as his dad, hauntin’ that
cave, and dreamin’ about it at night. I’m right worried about the lad.”

“You’re afraid he’ll meet with mishap in the cave?” questioned Miss
Ward.

“Bart knows his way in that cavern like it was his own ship,” the old
captain replied. “What worries me, Ma’am, is that he’s obsessed with
finding out what became of his father. He keeps talking about the
siphon, speculatin’ on whether a strong swimmer couldn’t get through.
One of these days he may be rash enough to try it.”

“Calico Cave--Hager’s Hole, I mean,” Kathleen corrected herself, “must
be a fascinating place. You’ve been in the cave many times I suppose?”

“Aye, in my younger day, I went there right often.”

“Then you must have seen the White Witch!” cried Judy, her brown eyes
dancing.

“Aye,” Captain Hager agreed reminiscently. “Aye.” He became absorbed in
deep thought.

Judy broke into his meditation to ask how long it would take to reach
the formation after one left the cave entrance.

“Ten minutes,” the captain estimated. “It’s easy walkin’. But don’t you
gals try it by yourself. If you’re aimin’ to go into that cave, you
need a guide.”

“We do, indeed!” cried Judy. She sprang to her feet, seizing the
captain’s hand so unexpectedly that he nearly dropped his pipe. “Oh,
Captain Hager, will you take us? Please, will you guide us to the White
Witch?”




_Chapter 11_

SPELL OF THE CAVE


Captain Hager’s remarks about the cave had stirred the imagination
of the Scouts, and even Miss Ward thought it would be interesting to
explore the cavern for a short distance.

“Would it be safe, do you think?” she asked, as Captain Hager seemed to
be giving Judy’s request sober consideration.

“It’s safe enough, Ma’am,” he assured her. “The only danger lies in
going too far without a guide.”

“No rock falls?”

“Never heard of one in all the years I’ve lived hereabouts.”

“Then do take us, Captain Hager!” Judy urged again, prancing excitedly
about the dock. “We haven’t much time, because the camp station wagon
is to come for us at ten thirty. Please, could we start right now?”

“Dash it, I was calculatin’ on anchorin’ for a comfortable snooze,” the
captain complained good-naturedly. “But if them’s my sailing orders,
we’ll cast off for the cave!”

The old man told the Scouts and their leader to meet him at the
entranceway of Hager’s Hole. He promised to join them there as soon as
he had gone to his nearby river shack to leave his fishing equipment
and pick up a few items he would want for the trip.

Taking leave of the old man, the girls swiftly climbed the slope to the
cave. Captain Hager did not keep them waiting long.

Within fifteen minutes, they glimpsed his bent figure coming along the
path. He had changed his shoes, put on a blue jacket, and carried a
lantern.

Before leading the way into the cave, Captain Hager told the group
something of its history. The cavern, he related, was known to have
been in existence in early Indian days--the exact date of its origin
never would be established.

“Now there are all types of caves,” he went on, warming to his subject.
“Tunnel caves, river system caves, fissure caves--no two ever are the
same, and that’s what makes ’em so interesting to explorers. This one
starts with a sort of sinkhole entrance. It narrows down for a distance
and then opens up into a chamber where you’ll see the White Witch.
That’s as far as most folks ever go.”

“It won’t take us too long to see the formation?” Miss Ward asked,
looking anxiously at her wrist watch. “We haven’t much time.”

“Ten minutes, ma’am, to walk to the chamber. The climb back will take
longer. I’m not as spry as I was in the old days.”

“We can spare an hour,” Miss Ward decided.

Captain Hager instructed the girls to follow him, single-file. Miss
Ward brought up the rear of the procession to make certain that none of
her charges wandered out of line.

Cautiously, and with awe, the Scouts moved into the entrance chamber
of the cave. A considerable current of air moved in the cavern, nearly
lifting Kathleen’s beret from her head.

The room in which the girls found themselves, though dark, was
neither damp nor musty. By the light of Captain Hager’s lantern, they
distinguished smoke-blackened limestone walls, and on the floor were
the dead ashes of a small fire.

“Someone has been in here lately,” the guide remarked. “Not Bart,
because he wouldn’t bother with a fire. He does most of his exploring
in a bathing suit.”

“A bathing suit!” gasped Miss Ward, truly astonished. “I should think
he’d freeze to death.”

“Not that lad,” chuckled the captain. He had rested his lantern for a
moment on a rocky ledge. “The temperature of this cave is the same,
summer or winter. Bart wears a bathing suit because he can crawl
through narrow places better than if he had on bulky clothes. And when
he gets wet, he says he stays warmer and dries out faster.”

“Dear me, there’s more to this exploration of caves than I realized,”
commented Miss Ward. “We’ll not get wet, I trust?”

“No, Ma’am,” the captain promised. “There’s no water down to the level
where we’re going. Keep your eyes out for bats though--not that the
little creatures will harm you.”

“Bats!” Virginia squealed. “Horrors!”

“They won’t hurt you,” the captain repeated. “Not even if you touch
’em with your hand. Sometimes they’re packed in on the walls as tight
as a swarm o’ bees. Then if they’re disturbed, the whole mass may take
flight. Bats are strange creatures.”

“Ardeth should be assigned to capture one for the camp treasure chest!”
Judy chuckled.

“We’ll go below, now,” the captain announced. “Follow me closely, and
don’t do too much talkin’. Sound echoes in a cave and is magnified.
Full steam ahead!”

Step by step, the Scouts descended the narrow passageway. The slope
was an easy one, but it seemed endless. Unable to judge distance
underground, the girls imagined they had gone a long ways when finally
the captain brought up in a gallery approximately sixteen feet wide.

Walls of the room were covered with limestone ridges and there were a
few interesting stalagmites and stalactites. Captain Hager struck one
of the latter with his stout walking stick, and it gave forth a musical
ring.

Waiting until the entire party had clustered about, he slowly moved
his lantern so that it threw a circular, shadowy light on a dark
portion of the gallery.

The girls sucked in their breath, uttering exclamations of surprise and
awe.

There before them, was the cave witch!

Tall and skinny, she appeared to lean on a long, white staff. The
ice-like figure, the girls knew, had been formed by stalagmites and
stalactites which over the years had grown together in weird formation.

For a long while they stood silent, held by the ghostly spell of the
old witch. In the dead stillness, they could hear the rush of the
mysterious hidden river far below them. A cold gust of air blew across
the gallery, causing the Scouts to pull their jackets more closely
about them.

“How real that old witch looks!” Judy whispered, finally breaking the
silence. “No wonder folks make up tales about this cave.”

Keeping his voice low to prevent echo, Captain Hager explained that the
dripstone formations were called stalactites when they hung from the
limestone ceiling and stalagmites if they rose from the cave floor.

“Each icicle-like formation, if broken, shows growth rings not unlike
those of a tree,” he related. Some, he told the Scouts, grew very
rapidly, while others were years in the making.

“Usually each stalactite has a small hole in the center through which
the water flows to drip off the end,” he went on. “When the drip-off
strikes the floor, it sometimes builds up a stalagmite as you see them
here. When the two unite, you may get any variety of weird shapes.”

“Oh, dear,” protested Kathleen, “you’re taking all the magic away from
the White Witch, Captain Hager! I prefer to imagine that she is pure
white stone.”

Virginia inquired if there were other interesting formations deeper
down in the cave?

“Aye, in the gallery below, there’s one Bart calls the Grand Ballroom.
Farther on, there’s a Frozen Waterfall, or flowstone, as it’s called.
You can see needles and toadstools and totem poles.”

“Oh, Captain Hager, take us on!” pleaded Ardeth. “Only as far as the
Ballroom. This cave is so fascinating.”

Before the captain could answer, Miss Ward interposed firmly: “No,
girls. Perhaps some other day, if we have a guide, we can return.”

“The camp station wagon will be at Calico Cottage before we are, if we
don’t hurry,” declared Kathleen. “This is such a wonderful grotto, I
hate to leave, but we must.”

Regretfully, the others agreed that further exploration of the cave
must be postponed. Leading the way with the lantern, Captain Hager
began the steep climb. He moved slowly and in the narrow passageway,
his heavy breathing was so loud that those behind him could hear it
plainly.

“I’m not as spry as I was ten years ago,” the old man confessed when
the party presently reached the cave exit. “Going down is easy enough,
but when I throw ’er in reverse, my ticker starts to pound.”

“We shouldn’t have pressed you into taking us to see the old witch,”
Judy apologized.

“I was glad to do it,” the captain insisted. “Anyway, I’m not ready yet
to let old age get to the windward of me! No, sir!”

The Scouts thanked their guide for taking them on the expedition.
Saying goodbye, they hastened along the rocky path to the private road,
thence to Calico Cottage. To their relief, the camp station wagon had
not yet arrived.

“What a wonderful morning!” Kathleen declared, sitting down on the
porch steps to think over the exciting things she had seen inside the
cave. “I wish all the girls at Pine Cone Camp could see the White
Witch!”

“Perhaps it can be arranged,” Miss Ward remarked. “I’ll talk to
Miss Lubell about it and see what she thinks. Caves certainly are
educational.”

“Captain Hager knows a lot about them too,” contributed Judy. “He told
us a great deal, but I have a hunch there’s more he left unsaid.”

“About the White Witch?” inquired Virginia.

“The White Witch and maybe some other things,” she hinted. “Both
Captain Hager and Bart seem to dislike Mr. Krumm. If it weren’t for
that personal feeling, I suspect they might tell us more about the
ghost of Calico Cottage.”




_Chapter 12_

THE PRIVATE ROAD


After lunch at Pine Cone Camp, the Scouts busied themselves washing
their clothes and cleaning the Beaver Patrol tent. Miss Lubell sent
word by one of the counselors that other quarters would be available
for the girls by nightfall.

“I guess we’ll have no excuse for staying at Calico Cottage tonight,”
Judy said regretfully. “You know, that boy with the flute intrigues me!”

“Everyone in camp has heard about him,” added Ardeth as she hung a
blouse on the line to dry. “We’re being teased no end. If we don’t
solve the mystery before we leave here, we’ll never hear the last of
it.”

Miss Ward had overheard the conversation, and interposed a word. “It
might be well for a couple of Scouts to stay with Judy’s aunt tonight,”
she proposed. “I’m satisfied that the cottage is safe, but strange
sounds at night can be most disturbing to a nervous person alone.”

“I’ll stay with Aunt Mattie, if I may,” Judy promptly volunteered.

“I’d like to myself,” added Ardeth. “While I’m there, I want to visit
the cave again. If I could get one of those bats we heard about, we’d
have a fine entry for the nature treasure chest.”

“The cave is out-of-bounds without a guide,” Miss Ward returned. “I
talked to Miss Lubell about it. She thinks we may be able to arrange
a tour for the entire camp later this week. The problem is to find a
suitable guide. It seems that with the exception of Bart and Captain
Hager, few persons go near the place.”

“Someone has been in there lately,” Judy said, reminding the teacher of
the dead camp fire ashes they had seen at the cave entrance.

Shortly before two o’clock, the station wagon took Miss Ward, Judy and
Ardeth to the village depot. A smoky haze hung over the mountainside,
and the girls were somewhat disturbed to learn that a small forest fire
had broken out across the river on Brady’s Ridge.

Enroute to the station they met a forest service truck and passed a
ranger with a portable radio on his shoulder.

The driver of the station wagon pulled up, to ask the forest service
man if the situation was considered at all serious.

“Everything’s under control,” the ranger assured him. “It’s a small
brush fire. We’re keeping a close watch of the entire area though.”

“How did the fire start?” inquired Miss Ward.

The ranger shrugged. “Perhaps from a carelessly dropped cigarette.
Or a motorist may have tossed a match out of a car window. The fire
apparently started close to the road. You folks will be all right, if
you don’t try to cross the river. Keep on this side.”

The haze of smoke hung low as the station wagon parked near the depot.
Judy sniffed the fumes and coughed.

“What a welcome for Aunt Mattie!” she remarked. “She’ll be scared to
death that the fire will spread to this side of the river. And if we
tell her about the ghost--”

“I don’t believe I’d do that,” Miss Ward advised. “And least not for a
day or so. Why disturb her unnecessarily?”

“You’re right,” Judy promptly agreed. “If the ghost makes any more
trouble, Aunt Mattie will find out about it soon enough. Mum’s the
word.”

The train proved to be half an hour late. Finally it rumbled in,
throwing up dust and cinders. Aunt Mattie Meadows was on the last
Pullman car. She was a jolly-faced woman of forty-two, well turned out
in a trim gray suit, with a white carnation in the lapel.

“Hi, Aunt Mattie!” Judy cried, rushing to greet her.

Miss Meadows enfolded her niece in a warm embrace, and then held her
off at arm’s length for a better view.

“Why, you’re brown as an Indian!” she exclaimed. “What have you done to
your complexion?”

“Liberal doses of sun, wind and lake water,” Judy chuckled. She turned
to present Miss Ward and Ardeth.

Miss Meadows greeted them, made a few casual remarks and then sniffed
the air. “Goodness! Do I smell smoke?” she demanded. “Is something on
fire?”

“Only a little brush across the river,” Judy said carelessly. She
picked up her aunt’s suitcase and started for the station wagon.
“Nothing to worry about.”

Aunt Mattie kept sniffing the air. “Dear me, it doesn’t seem a little
fire could make so much smoke. Judy, are you quite sure there’s no
danger? You’re not keeping anything from me?”

“The ranger assured us there is no danger. Don’t give it a thought,
Aunt Mattie.”

Miss Meadows fell silent as she was escorted to the waiting station
wagon. Nevertheless, she kept gazing toward the horizon in the
direction of the river.

Going up the winding mountain road, the woman became increasingly ill
at ease. At each sharp turn, she instinctively braced herself, as if
fearing the car would roll off into a ravine.

“I hope you rented a nice cottage for me, Judy,” she chatted. “You
didn’t write me a word about it.”

“There wasn’t time, Aunt Mattie. In fact, we didn’t have any choice in
selecting the cottage. We had to take the only place available.”

“Is it a quiet place? I’ve had a hard, tiring year, and I do want to
have complete rest.”

“Well, Calico Cottage is off the beaten path,” Judy replied evasively.
“How quiet it will prove to be no one can predict.”

The station wagon rounded a curve and slowed to a standstill. Peering
ahead, the girls saw that a wooden barrier had been placed across part
of the highway, blocking traffic.

“Now what?” murmured Judy. “This wasn’t here when we came down the
mountain an hour ago.”

A state highway patrolman came over to the station wagon. Recognizing
the driver and the occupants, he told them they might proceed.

“We’re checking every car,” he told the group. “We have a report some
hi-jackers, who took a truck at Oelwein, are coming this way. With the
forest service tied up fighting a forest fire, and most of our men
helping ’em, they probably figured they could slip a cargo through.”

“Hi-jackers!” Aunt Mattie exclaimed in dismay. “Judy, what sort of a
place is this?”

“Never a dull moment,” Judy responded lightly. “You’ll love it here!”

“Judy, tell her about your meeting with Joe--” Ardeth began, only to
let her voice trail off as Miss Ward directed a warning glance in her
direction.

The station wagon moved on past the barrier and drew up presently
at Calico Cottage. Aunt Mattie, who had fallen into a weary silence,
suddenly revived at sight of the little house.

“Why, it’s charming!” she cried. “Judy, you couldn’t have found a nicer
place. So peaceful looking, set back among the trees.”

“Let’s hope Calico Cottage lives up to its appearance,” Judy said,
leading the way across the lawn. “Ardeth and I thought we’d stay with
you tonight, so you won’t be lonesome. Do you mind?”

“I’ll be happy to have you! I’m not afraid to stay alone at night,
but I’ll admit I’ll rest easier with someone in the house. Especially
with a forest fire burning at my doorstep, and hi-jackers on the main
highway!”

“It’s not that bad,” Judy protested.

After seeing that Miss Meadows was comfortably settled in the cottage,
Miss Ward decided to return with the station wagon driver to Pine Cone
Camp. Before leaving, she talked privately with Judy.

“Everything should be all right here,” she said, “but if by chance
anything does go wrong, call me at once.”

“We’ll be safe and comfortable,” Judy insisted. “No more ghost scares I
hope.”

“Miss Lubell put a stop to that,” the teacher informed her. “We checked
and learned that it was the Lone Tree girls who attached the bed sheet
to the bushes. They’ve promised not to pull any more tricks.”

After the station wagon had departed, Judy and Ardeth helped Miss
Meadows unpack. Her enthusiasm for the cottage was boundless. She was
especially delighted with the kitchen and went about poking in the high
cupboards over the sink.

“Tomorrow when I am rested, I’ll straighten all the dishes and
rearrange them more to my liking,” she announced. “I never feel that
I’m settled in a place until I’ve cleaned the cupboards.”

With the supplies on hand, Aunt Mattie cooked a magnificent supper,
topping it off with biscuits and a custard pie. The meal finished, she
suddenly collapsed from weariness, leaving the dishes for Judy and
Ardeth.

“I declare, I don’t know what’s come over me,” she apologized. “The
long train ride must have worn me out. I can’t keep my eyes open.”

“Go straight to bed, Aunt Mattie. Ardeth and I will take care of
everything.”

“I believe I will turn in,” Miss Meadows said, covering a yawn. “You’ll
be sure to lock all the doors?”

“Every one,” Judy promised.

The sink was fairly loaded with dishes, for Aunt Mattie did not skimp
on them when she cooked a meal. After scouring the last stubborn pan,
Judy hung up the dish rag with a tired sigh.

“Shall we turn in?” she asked Ardeth.

“We may as well, I guess. Wonder what the girls are doing at Pine
Cone?”

“Singing songs and telling stories by the camp fire, like as not. Wish
you were there, Ardeth?”

“Someone should stay here this first night with your aunt. I don’t
mind, Judy. Do you suppose--”

“We’ll have a serenade from our friend with the flute?” Judy supplied.
“For Aunt Mattie’s sake I hope not. If she hears about a ghost on top
of hi-jackers and a forest fire, she’s likely to pack her suitcase and
leave.”

Ardeth had moved to the open kitchen door. “There isn’t as much smoke
in the air now,” she reported. “Either the wind is carrying it the
other direction, or the fire has died down.”

After closing the windows and making certain the doors were locked, the
two girls presently went to their bedroom which adjoined the one Miss
Meadows had taken.

Judy secretly had made up her mind she would lie awake a long while to
be sure that nothing went amiss in the cottage. However, her bed was so
pleasantly comfortable, that despite her firm resolution, she dozed off
almost at once.

When finally she awakened, it was to find herself being shaken by
Ardeth.

“Get up, lazy!” the latter ordered. “It’s late! Your aunt has been up
for at least half an hour.”

“Jumping fishes!” Judy exclaimed in dismay, dragging herself from
beneath the covers. “I must have slept like a log all night.”

“I know I did,” Ardeth confessed. “What a fine pair of guards we
proved to be!”

“Well, at least nothing went wrong here,” Judy said, pulling on her
shoes. “I’m relieved on that score.”

Dressing fast, the girls hastened to the kitchen. Miss Meadows had the
stove going and was cooking cereal. She appeared pale, however, and
there were dark shadows under her eyes.

“Did you sleep well, Aunt Mattie?” Judy asked politely.

“Very badly.”

Judy and Ardeth exchanged a quick, worried glance. Both hesitated to
ask the question which was foremost in their minds.

“Did--did anything disturb you?” Judy managed finally.

“I never sleep well the first night in a strange place. I was awake for
hours.”

Judy drew a long breath and grinned at Ardeth. But her relief was
brief. For Aunt Mattie went on impressively:

“I’m not sure I’ll like this place as well as I thought last night.
There’s entirely too much traffic on the side road.”

“You mean the main road, don’t you, Aunt Mattie?” Judy corrected.

Miss Meadows stirred the pot of cereal on the stove. “I mean that
highway that runs down the hill toward the river.”

“Why, that’s a private road and it dead-ends,” Judy responded. “There’s
never any traffic in that direction.”

“There was last night,” Miss Meadows insisted firmly. “A truck came
along the highway and stopped so that the headbeams shone almost
directly into my window. The driver flashed them on and off several
times as if in signal. Then, the lights were doused, and the truck
turned down the side road.”

“I can’t imagine a truck using that road at night,” Judy said
thoughtfully. “The road doesn’t go anywhere except to the cave. Perhaps
you were mistaken, Aunt Mattie. Don’t you think the truck might have
gone on down the main highway?”

“I don’t think so,” Miss Meadows replied. “No, I’m sure the truck
turned down the side road.”

No more was said about the matter then. But after the breakfast dishes
had been done, Ardeth and Judy slipped outside for a private talk.

“Do you suppose your aunt was right about those truck lights?” Ardeth
asked, lowering her voice so it would not carry through the open
kitchen window. “And what about that signal?”

“She must have been mistaken,” Judy replied anxiously. “All the same,
we certainly should investigate. Come on, Ardeth! If that truck turned
down the dead-end road, there will be tire marks to prove it.”




_Chapter 13_

THE MISSING KEY


Cutting across the lawn which was heavy with dew, the two girls turned
toward the entrance to the private road. A haze of smoke still hung
above the treetops, but it was evident that the fire which had alarmed
everyone the previous day, now was well under control.

Suddenly, Judy halted, staring at tire marks on the dirt road.

“Aunt Mattie was right!” she exclaimed. “A big truck did turn off the
main highway!”

“The tire prints are plain to see,” Ardeth agreed, equally startled.
“But what would a heavy truck be doing here? The road dead-ends.”

“It seems odd.”

“Perhaps the driver only pulled off the pavement to fix a tire.”

Judy shook her head. “The tracks plainly go down the slope toward the
cave,” she pointed out.

“Mightn’t it have been a forest ranger fire fighting truck?”

“That’s so,” Judy acknowledged, “it might have been. Maybe that would
explain the headlight signals Aunt Mattie reported seeing. I can’t
imagine though, why a Forest Service truck would use this road at
night. The fire was across the river.”

As the girls considered whether to go farther down the private road,
they heard the rattle of a milk wagon approaching on the main highway.

“It’s Bart!” Judy cried.

The delivery truck stopped some distance away, but after milk had been
left at Calico Cottage, came on down the road. Bart drew up to chat
with the girls.

“How’s everything?” he inquired cheerfully. “Your ghost behaving
himself?”

Judy replied that the household had not been disturbed further by the
mysterious flute player. She added, however, that her aunt had slept
badly and that lights from a truck had bothered her.

“I guess it must have been a Forest Service truck that went down this
road last night,” Ardeth remarked. “See the tire tracks.”

Bart already had stepped out of the milk wagon to inspect them.

“Those weren’t made by a Forest Service truck,” he told the girls.
“Their vehicles are lighter. Anyway, I don’t know what a forest truck
would be doing here late at night. Seems sort of queer--”

“I thought so myself!” Judy said quickly.

“Let’s have a look-see,” Bart proposed. “Want to ride down the hill
with me? If you do, hop in!”

Judy and Ardeth scrambled into the cab, taking care not to step on
Pete who was asleep on the floor.

“Do you dare leave your milk route?” Ardeth asked the young driver.

“I’m ahead of schedule this morning,” Bart answered. “I can take a few
minutes. This is my last week on the route anyway.”

“You’re taking another job?” Ardeth inquired politely.

By this time the milk truck had turned and was moving slowly down the
narrow, rutty road.

“Not exactly,” Bart admitted. “I’ve saved enough money to see me
through a year of college. I’m laying off because I want to do a little
exploring before I start in at school this fall.”

“Exploring?” Judy repeated with interest. “Of the cavern?”

“That’s right.” Bart grinned, as he slowed down for a bad hole in the
road. “Folks hereabouts think I’m crazy to spend so much time in a
cave. It’s in my blood, I guess! I’m planning on becoming a scientist
if I make the grade.”

“Does Calico Cave have any bats or other interesting birds or animals?”
Ardeth questioned abruptly.

“Hundreds of bats. You can see them clustered in masses on the walls in
one section of the cave, near the entrance.”

“Ugh!” Judy shuddered.

“Why, they’re harmless,” Bart assured her. “I suppose you think of a
bat as a naked, winged creature with claws that would catch in your
hair?”

“I never came very close to one,” Judy admitted, “but I do feel that
way about them.”

“Like a great many folks, you do the bat an injustice,” Bart returned.
“Its little claws are used only to provide a means of clinging to a
rock wall. Bats are afraid of people. They fly at amazing speed, but
they can dodge any obstacle.”

“They sleep in the caves?” Ardeth questioned.

“Yes, the bat, you know, is descended from an animal that lived in a
warm, uniform climate. For some reason, the bat never has been able to
adapt itself to weather changes, so it hibernates in caves which have
an almost constant temperature.”

“I’d give anything if I had a bat!” Ardeth announced. “Just one!”

“A bat? What would you want with it?” Bart asked, rather amused by the
remark.

Ardeth told him about the nature treasure chest at Pine Cone Camp. “Our
unit hasn’t contributed anything, as yet,” she added. “If I could get
one of those bats, we’d really be the talk of the camp.”

“I think I can get you one,” Bart offered, glancing at his wristwatch.
“You’re serious about wanting it?”

“Oh, yes, but I don’t want to delay you on your run.”

“If the bats are where I think they’ll be, I can pick one off the wall
in a minute or two,” Bart promised. “Want to go into the cave with me?”

“I don’t think we should without permission from our leader,” Judy said
quickly.

“I can travel faster alone at any rate,” the young milkman replied.

As the milk truck rattled on down the winding road, he talked
enthusiastically about bats and their habits.

The creatures, he told the girls, had silky, translucent wings and flew
with astonishing precision.

“I’ve seen ’em fly between water and ceiling down deep in the cave
where there was barely clearance,” he related. “Now, if only I were a
bat, I’d explore that siphon!”

“You shouldn’t even think of such a thing!” Judy chided. “It would be
frightfully dangerous.”

Bart made no answer.

“You’re not considering it, are you?” Judy demanded, alarmed by his
silence.

“I’ve considered it for years,” Bart answered soberly. “I think about
it all the time, in fact. I’ve just about decided--” he deliberately
broke off, and finished: “Now to tell you more about bats--they hang
to the ceilings by their feet, head down. Their bodies are covered by
their long, folded wings when they sleep. One can pick them off the
wall, and they make no fuss.”

“Ardeth, must you have a bat?” Judy tried to discourage her.

“Oh, yes, if I can get one without causing too much trouble. But how
will I get it to camp?”

Bart had pulled up at the end of the private road. From the back end of
the truck, he brought out a cardboard box with a cover.

“We can use this,” he suggested. “I may not get a bat for you though. I
haven’t long to ramble through the cave this trip.”

Tucking the cardboard box under his arm, the cheerful young milkman
stepped from the truck. Alertly he gazed at a sizeable slick of oil on
the roadside, remarking that it evidently had leaked from the parked
truck.

“Apparently, it stayed here quite a while last night before turning
around and pulling out,” he added.

“What would a truck be doing down here late at night?” Judy speculated.

“I wouldn’t know,” Bart answered with a shrug. “Interesting question
though.”

He started off down the path which led to Calico Cave. Before vanishing
from view amid the bushes, he paused to fling over his shoulder: “Don’t
try to follow me, even if I’m not back in a few minutes. Wait in the
milk wagon.”

Ten minutes elapsed, then fifteen and twenty. Eagerly the girls began
to watch the path for their friend to reappear.

The rising sun beat down harder and harder on the milk wagon, causing
Judy and Ardeth increasing discomfort. They became restless.

“It’s taking Bart an awfully long time,” Ardeth remarked uneasily.
“Perhaps I shouldn’t have asked him to get a bat for me. If anything
should happen--”

“He’ll be along soon,” Judy said. “I think I hear him coming now.”

She was right, for a moment later, the young milkman emerged from the
tunnel of branches at the trail’s exit.

“Did you get one?” Ardeth cried eagerly.

“Sure did,” Bart responded.

Coming over to the milk truck, he opened the punctured lid of the
cardboard box, so that the girls could peep at the frightened creature
flopping inside.

“After you’ve displayed him at camp, better let him fly away,” the
milkman advised. “He’ll find his way back to the cave.”

“Oh, I wouldn’t want to keep him shut up,” Ardeth replied. “That would
be cruel. I promise to let him go by tonight.”

“Fine!” Bart approved, climbing into the milk wagon and starting the
motor. “Now I want you girls to make me another one.”

“Another promise?” asked Ardeth, carefully holding the box Bart had
placed in her hands.

“Yes, I want you to stay away from here unless you’re with a forest
ranger or some man.”

“Away from the cave, you mean?” Judy questioned, rather surprised by
the request.

“From the cave, and also away from this private road.”

“But why?”

“I’ll tell you,” Bart said soberly. By this time he had turned the milk
truck around in the narrow road and had headed it up the hill. “There’s
something going on here that will bear investigation.”

“The truck tire tracks, you mean?” interposed Ardeth, mystified by the
remark.

“At first, that didn’t seem very disturbing,” Bart said. “But I’ve
since made a discovery. That was why it took me so long.”

“You didn’t run into anyone in the cave?” Judy asked quickly.

“No, but someone has been there recently. Last night probably.”

“How do you know?”

“Someone had trampled the path to the cave. Boot tracks. Then inside
the entrance chamber, I found cigarette butts and long marks, showing
where heavy objects had been dragged across the floor. Boxes, I’d
judge.”

“All removed?” Judy questioned.

“Yes, no sign of anyone or anything in the cave now.”

“You think someone must have come here last night in that truck and
used the cave?”

“Obviously, Judy. But don’t quiz me, because I’ve told you everything
I learned. I’m not venturing any guesses as to who it was or why the
person or persons came here late at night. My advice is just to keep
clear of the place until we can learn what’s going on.”

“Judy and I are returning to camp this morning,” Ardeth informed the
young milkman. “So even if we wanted to prowl around, we wouldn’t have
an opportunity.”

“That’s all to the good then,” Bart grinned. “There may be no cause for
alarm, but it’s just as well not to take chances.”

At the turn-off onto the paved road, he said goodbye to the Scouts and
resumed his milk route.

Triumphantly, Ardeth and Judy bore their captured bat to Calico Cottage
where they displayed it to Miss Meadows. Though they related how they
had obtained the creature, they did not repeat Bart’s warning or
mention what they had learned about the big truck.

Miss Meadows seemed to have forgotten the disturbance of the previous
night completely. After making a show of admiring the imprisoned bat,
she chirped:

“While you girls were away, I cleaned the cupboards.”

“They’re very neat and tidy now,” Judy said, opening the double doors
to inspect the rows of china.

“At the back of the cupboard, I found a key,” Miss Meadows remarked
casually. She produced it from her apron pocket. “Apparently, it fits a
door. But which one I wouldn’t know.”

Judy rocked back on her heels and looked quickly at Ardeth. Neither
spoke for a moment.

Finally, Judy trusted her voice. Taking care to keep it steady, to give
no hint of her excitement and hope, she said quietly:

“I wouldn’t be surprised if that key fits the cellar door, Aunt Mattie.”

“Why, it might at that.”

Judy forced herself to speak casually, as if the matter were of no
great moment.

“The key looks about the right size,” she remarked. “Do you mind if I
try it?”




_Chapter 14_

A FAMILIAR FACE


Miss Meadows willingly relinquished the key which she had found in the
kitchen cupboard.

Judy fitted it in the door lock and was elated when it turned readily.
Her pose of indifference instantly dissolved.

“Now we can get into the cellar!” she exulted. “Whoopee!”

Miss Meadows could not understand her niece’s exuberance. The key was
only an ordinary one so far as she knew, and until that moment she
scarcely had noted that the basement was closed off.

The opening of the cellar door had brought a whiff of stale, cool air
into the kitchen.

Poised at the head of the long flight of stone stairs, Judy peered down
into the darkness. In vain she groped for a light switch.

“I guess the cellar never was equipped with electricity,” she remarked.
“I’ll get my flashlight.”

She ran to the bedroom, returning a moment later to find Miss Meadows
regarding the stairway with disapproval.

“Need we go down there, Judy?” she asked to discourage her. “Since the
door was locked, the cottage owner might prefer us to keep it so.”

“Oh, we can relock the door,” Judy answered, flashing her light over
the rough brick wall along the steep stairway. “First though, I want to
see what’s below.”

Focusing her light upon the uneven stone steps, she cautiously started
down.

“Watch your footing,” she advised Ardeth and her aunt, who followed
close behind. “These steps are narrow and worn.”

Miss Meadows remarked that the cellar seemed very old in contrast to
the new cottage.

“It is old,” Judy agreed. “When Mr. Krumm built the cottage, he tried
to save money by using the foundation of Captain Hager’s place.”

Judy negotiated the stairway safely and waited for the others at a
jagged doorway which opened into the main cellar chamber.

The basement was very still, except for the shuffle of the descending
feet.

“No musical chimes or the like?” Ardeth demanded with a suppressed
giggle as she reached the bottom of the stairway.

Moving through the stone archway, the three found themselves in a large
room. The chamber was dry, but nevertheless gave forth a musty odor.

The ancient brick walls were lined with shelves, all of which appeared
empty. In fact, the only visible objects in the room were a half dozen
old barrels. The casks lay helter-skelter, some on their sides, and
others up-ended.

Judy deliberately walked around the barrels, inspecting them closely
and kicking at them with her foot. All gave forth a hollow sound, which
echoed in the chamber room.

Satisfied that every cask was empty, Judy next turned her attention to
a smaller storage closet off to the left.

“This must have been the fruit and vegetable storage room,” she
declared. “It’s been cleaned out though.”

The shelves were completely bare, and the roving flashlight revealed
only an undisturbed layer of dust.

“We’ve seen everything,” Ardeth said, losing interest. “I think we
should be getting upstairs. The camp station wagon will be coming for
us any minute now.”

It was well that they had cut short their inspection of the basement,
for within five minutes the camp station wagon drove up.

In a flurry to be off, Judy and Ardeth hurriedly gathered their few
belongings and the precious bat from Calico Cave.

“Now have a good time in camp and don’t keep trying to look after
me,” Miss Meadows admonished as she bade the girls goodbye. “Drop by
whenever you feel like it, but don’t think you have to stay here over
night.”

“I don’t like you to remain alone,” Judy began only to have her aunt
interrupt.

“Nonsense! I’ll be all right. Now run along, and enjoy your friends.”

In truth, Judy was somewhat relieved to know that there was no reason
for the Scouts to remain each night at Calico Cottage. Although the
mysterious flute sounds had not been explained, and might never be, she
and Ardeth had convinced themselves that no danger lurked in the cellar.

As for Bart’s warning not to go near the cave without a male escort,
Judy decided that to pass on the admonition to her aunt, might only
cause uneasiness.

“Aunt Mattie never will set foot inside that cave,” she reflected. “So
why worry her needlessly? She’ll probably never see those truck lights
again.”

At Pine Cone Camp a few minutes later, Judy and Ardeth created a
sensation by producing their captive bat. The other Scouts generously
credited the Beaver Patrol girls with having the very best treasure
chest entry. Everyone was satisfied when Miss Lubell announced that
they had won the competition.

“We certainly got in just under the wire,” Ardeth chuckled, when
informed that her bat had taken first honors. “Now I’ll let him fly
away, and hope he returns to Calico Cave safely.”

Making up for time which of necessity had been spent away from camp,
Judy had a wonderful day with her friends. She swam, went sailboating,
and in the late afternoon helped set the table for the evening meal.

Later that night, all the girls enjoyed a sing-fest and took part in
folk dancing.

“What a grand day!” Judy declared blissfully as she sought her tent a
few minutes before the “lights out” signal. “I hope Aunt Mattie doesn’t
run into trouble. I feel guilty, knowing she’s alone at the cottage.”

She dropped off to sleep quickly, determined to check on affairs at
Calico Cottage the first thing in the morning.

Judy’s intentions were the very best. Nevertheless, she awoke late and
was hard pressed to dress and be on time for breakfast. Thereafter, she
found herself assigned to kitchen detail with Beverly and Kathleen.

The three spent until lunch time peeling apples for pie and washing
vegetables. Even after luncheon, Judy did not get to a telephone, for
the unit leader hurried her off to her tent to prepare for a hike.

In connection with the hike, the Scouts planned to visit one of the
nearby ranger towers. A brisk walk through the forest brought them
presently to a cleared area from which arose a tall, steel framework.

The Scouts climbed the steep stairway to a glassed-in square
observation room. A ranger, who had been poring over a map on a table,
greeted the visitors in a friendly way and invited them to look about.

After answering a number of questions, he showed the girls an automatic
fire-finder, an instrument which permitted an observer to read with
precision both vertical and horizontal angles. By means of the device,
a newly discovered fire could be pinpointed, and rangers immediately
dispatched to the area.

“We have a network of ten observation towers in this particular area,”
he informed the Scouts. “Even so all points cannot be viewed, so we
find it necessary to maintain ground patrols as well.”

“Can one see Pine Cone Camp from here?” Judy inquired.

“No, the camp is one of our blind spots, unfortunately,” the ranger
replied. “Rest assured, it is well protected though. Lowell Diethelm
patrols that area. His Forest Service car is equipped with radio
telephone. If he should observe a fire, he immediately would notify
headquarters. Ground fighters would be dispatched at once.”

“Do you have many fires here during the summer?” Kathleen inquired.

“Until this year, very few. Recently, we’ve had a number of small ones,
mostly along the main highway. A few though, have been of mysterious
origin.”

“Deliberately set?” questioned Judy.

“We’re beginning to wonder,” the ranger answered. “Carelessness, of
course, is the underlying cause of most fires. But incendiarism runs
high too. Now that so many summer campers and tourists are pouring into
the area, we have to be especially watchful.”

Before leaving the observation tower, the Scouts studied the big
topographical map and took turns peering through the binoculars.

“Well, come again girls,” the ranger invited as they prepared to leave.
“Be careful of your fires. And remember, if you do see one, report it
at once. Discovery time counts for a lot.”

Leaving the observation tower, the Scouts hiked on for another mile and
a half. By the time they reached the Fountain Falls trail, everyone was
beginning to feel the first pangs of hunger.

“When do we eat?” Virginia demanded.

“Soon,” promised the unit leader. “I’ll get the fire started while you
girls see the falls. I obtained a permit, so we’re violating no rules
to build our own.”

The girls helped gather wood. Then, while the fire was burning down to
bright cherry coals, those not delegated to watch, climbed a steep path
to Fountain Falls.

A veil-like spray of water fell nearly thirty feet to a rocky shelf
below. Ferns and moss protruded from cracks in the limestone rock.

After admiring the sight for some minutes, the Scouts retraced their
way to help with supper. Already a huge tin can was warming on the
coals, filled with a fragrant chowder mixture of bacon, onions, canned
corn and potatoes.

By the time Judy had toasted bread, the other simple items of the
meal were ready. The crisp mountain air had given everyone enormous
appetites. However, there was sufficient food for everyone.

Once the litter had been cleared away and the last marshmallow toasted,
the unit leader personally supervised putting out the camp fire.

She had the girls smother it with water brought from the nearby creek.
Then to make certain that not a spark remained, she covered the dead
coals with a heavy layer of soil.

“Now it’s time to hike down to Silverton,” she advised the group as she
consulted her watch. “The time has gone very fast.”

The downhill hike was comparatively easy and the group made faster time
than had been expected. As a consequence, they arrived in the village
at twenty minutes to seven.

“We’ll have a short wait until the station wagon comes,” the unit
leader told the girls. “It shouldn’t be long though.”

The group had been instructed to meet their driver at Luke’s Cafe, one
of the few business establishments open after six o’clock.

Accordingly, they went in, taking tables and booths. Some of the girls
ordered ice cream. Judy finished hers quickly, and then left the booth
to pay her bill at the counter.

Two men were seated on stools, drinking coffee and munching hamburger
sandwiches.

Judy cast an indifferent glance in their direction, and than looked
again, more intently. One of the men she had never seen before, but she
was certain she recognized the other.

“That’s Joe Pompilli!” she thought excitedly. “The man who was hurt in
the truck accident! The same hi-jacker that the State Highway Patrol
wants to nail!”

As she considered what she should do, Kathleen sauntered out of another
booth. Judy signaled to her.

Once Kathleen had joined her, she informed her of her suspicion.

Kathleen studied the man that Judy pointed out. “Yes, he’s the one we
helped!” she whispered. “The one who was called Joe!”

“He’s wanted by the Highway Patrol,” Judy replied grimly, her mind
made up. “Kathleen, stay here and keep your eye on those two men. Don’t
let them recognize you, if you can prevent it. I’m going to slip out of
here and telephone!”




_Chapter 15_

JUDY’S MISTAKE


Rushing out of the cafe, Judy scarcely knew which way to go. Across the
street, lights were on at the corner drugstore, so she decided to seek
a telephone there.

As she darted to the opposite curb, she spied one of the forest
rangers, who only that moment had emerged from a barber shop.

Judy had seen the Forest Service man several times since her arrival at
Pine Cone Camp and knew that his name was Lowell Diethelm.

Now, instantly recognizing his face and uniform, a wave of relief swept
over her. He would know how to help her notify the State Highway Patrol
quickly!

“Oh, ranger!” she called, for in the excitement of the moment, his name
temporarily fled from her mind.

“Yes?” The ranger turned to regard Judy with intent curiosity.

“Can you help me make a report to the State Highway Department right
away?”

“Why sure,” the ranger replied. “What’s wrong? An automobile accident?”

Judy jerked her head to indicate the cafe across the street. “Two men
are in there eating lunch,” she explained, trying to hold her voice
steady. “I’m sure one of them is Joe Pompilli!”

“Not the hi-jacker?”

Judy’s head bobbed excitedly. “I know he’s the same one Kathleen and I
helped the other day when a truck went off the road. I want to get word
to the State Highway Department right away.”

“Take it easy,” the ranger advised as Judy turned as if to start off
alone. “You’re mistaken, I think. Joe Pompilli wouldn’t dare to show
himself openly here.”

“It does seem a reckless thing for him to do,” Judy conceded. “But I’m
sure the man is the same one.”

“You must be wrong, but to prove it I’ll go over with you to the cafe,”
Diethelm offered.

Crossing the street, Judy and the ranger peered in through the big
plate glass window. The two truckers still were seated at the lunch
counter.

“Which one do you say is Joe?” the ranger demanded.

“The one with the square jaw, seated next to the wall. I never saw the
other man before.”

Diethelm began to chuckle in a hard sort of manner which grated
unpleasantly on Judy’s ears.

“Why are you laughing?” she asked. “Isn’t that man Joe Pompilli?”

“Not on your life. Both those men are truckers for the Peoria Cartage
Co., and they make this town every few days. It’s lucky you ran into me
before you went blabbering your suspicions to the State Highway patrol.
If you’d accused those two of being hi-jackers, they might not have
liked it.”

“But I can’t understand it, unless I was misinformed by the state
highwaymen,” Judy stammered, completely crushed by the mistake she had
made. “That man certainly was hurt in an accident. He’s wearing a wrist
bandage and there are cuts on his face! The other Scouts and myself
gave him first aid treatment.”

“I don’t know about that,” Ranger Diethelm replied with a shrug. “The
state patrolmen either made a mistake in identifying him, or gave you
the wrong dope.”

“Shouldn’t I call Highway headquarters to make sure?”

“You’ll be making a silly mistake if you do,” warned the ranger. “A
mistake that will make your Scout organization the laughing stock of
the community. Take my word for it, those two men are Jim Brady and
Donald Fine, two highly respected truckers. But go ahead if you want to
make the call.”

Lowell Diethelm’s words, and particularly his air of amusement, robbed
Judy of all desire to risk action which might hold up her organization
to possible ridicule.

She hesitated. The ranger mistook her silence for unwillingness to
follow his suggestion.

“Instead of trying to track down criminals, you Scouts would do better
to look after affairs around your own camp,” he said cuttingly.

“Why, what do you mean?” asked Judy, startled. She had detected a
hostile note in the ranger’s voice.

“You girls should be more careful about starting camp fires.”

“We’re always careful,” Judy insisted indignantly.

“Didn’t you have a fire this afternoon at Fountain Falls?”

“Yes, but we were granted a permit. We took great care with our fire,
dousing the coals with water and covering the dead ashes with dirt as
an added precaution.”

“Well, not thirty minutes ago, our spotter at Tower 32 reported a small
fire close to the Falls. Fortunately, it was put out before it spread.”

“It couldn’t have been our fire, and we shouldn’t be blamed for it,”
Judy said, her eyes flashing.

“Some member of your party may have dropped a lighted match.”

“None of us had any. Only our leader carried matches.”

“Well, I don’t know how the fire started,” the ranger admitted. “Just
be more careful, that’s all. Now about reporting this trucker you think
is Joe Pompilli--”

“I guess I must have made a mistake,” Judy mumbled. “Sorry to have
bothered you.”

“No trouble at all,” Diethelm replied, as he smiled as if suddenly
relieved. “We rangers always try to be of service. Watch those fires
now!”

Tipping his broad-brimmed hat, he sauntered on down the darkening
street.

With mingled feelings, Judy was watching the retreating figure.
Humiliated that she had made a mistake in identifying Joe Pompilli, she
nevertheless was annoyed at the ranger for trying to accuse the Scouts
in connection with a newly discovered fire.

“I think he dragged that in just to bother me,” she thought
resentfully. “But why should he take such an attitude?”

As Judy stood by the cafe window, wondering what to do, Kathleen
signaled to her from the inside. Her friend’s meaning was not
immediately clear. Then she comprehended that the two truckers were
paying their bill, preparatory to leaving the cafe.

“I’ll have to let them go,” Judy decided. “Nothing else to do.”

A moment later the two truckers came outside. Judy did not try to stop
them, but they passed almost in front of her.

The one she had taken to be Joe Pompilli gazed squarely at her.
Involuntarily, he half stopped. Then, deliberately turning his gaze
away, he went on.

“He recognized me!” Judy thought, her pulse pounding. “I know he was
that same man Kathleen and I helped on the road. He was called Joe too!”

Ignoring the girl entirely, the two men went on. Judy saw them get into
a truck which bore the Peoria Cartage Co., name on its side. A moment
before they drove away, she jotted down the license number.

She had just finished scribbling the numbers on the back of an old
envelope, when Kathleen joined her.

“What happened?” her friend demanded. “I thought you were going to have
those men arrested. Couldn’t you reach the Highway Patrol station?”

“I didn’t try,” Judy confessed ruefully.

“You didn’t try? Why not?”

Judy recounted her conversation with the ranger.

“He talked me out of it,” she concluded. “I can’t help thinking I made
a mistake too. I wish I’d ignored his advice. It’s too late now, of
course.”

“I know that man was the same one we met,” Kathleen insisted.

“I’m sure of it too,” Judy nodded. “Ranger Diethelm insists he’s an
ordinary trucker and his name is either Jim Brady or Donald Fine.”

“Well, that doesn’t fit in with what we learned,” Kathleen declared,
shaking her head. “That man was called Joe by his friend.”

“I know,” Judy agreed with a deep sigh. “I’m all mixed up. I guess the
best thing to do is to forget those hi-jackers and let the state patrol
handle the situation. I’ve made a mess of it!”

“No such thing,” Kathleen insisted loyally. “We may have made a
mistake, but if so, it wasn’t our fault. We must have acted on
mis-information.”

Judy grinned and squeezed her friend’s hand. “You’re a dear,” she said,
“always bucking up my morale. Do me a favor?”

“Of course.”

“Then, let’s keep this little episode to ourselves. The other Scouts
didn’t hear about it?”

“No, I didn’t say a word to anyone. I just kept out of view and watched
those two men as you suggested.”

“Good!” Judy drew a relieved sigh. “If this gets out on me, my name
will be mud! You know, I’m already being teased at Pine Cone Camp
because of the Calico Cottage ghost!”

“We’re all taking a ribbing because of that boy with the flute,”
Kathleen admitted. “Any theory as to what causes the strange sounds?”

“No, not yet,” Judy replied. “Everything was quiet the last night I
spent at the cottage. I’m wondering though, how Aunt Mattie got along
last evening?”

“Perhaps our driver will stop at the cottage for a few minutes, so we
can check.”

“I intend to ask him,” Judy returned. “It must be seven o’clock now.”

“It is,” Kathleen agreed, “and our driver is coming now!”

She had sighted the familiar camp station wagon rounding a corner. It
waited for a traffic light and then came on, to park in front of the
restaurant.

The driver had been instructed to make two trips, as not all of the
girls could be seated in the vehicle. Accordingly, he designated those
who should remain behind.

Judy, Kathleen and other members of the Beaver Patrol, managed to find
a place for themselves in the first load.

On short time, the driver told Judy he could not possibly wait at
Calico Cottage. However, he compromised by agreeing to let her and
Kathleen off there, while he continued on to camp. Then on the second
trip, he would pick them up.

“Fine and dandy!” Judy approved. “That will give us nearly an hour to
talk to Aunt Mattie and make certain everything is all right.”

The station wagon climbed the darkening mountain road, presently
halting near the cottage. As Kathleen and Judy alighted, they noticed
that lights blazed everywhere inside the dwelling.

“Aunt Mattie is here all right!” Judy remarked, leading the way across
the lawn. “I wonder why she has all the lights burning?”

“So early too,” Kathleen added.

Even before the Scouts reached the front door, it was flung open by
Miss Meadows, who had noted the arrival of the station wagon.

“Oh, I’m so glad you came!” the woman exclaimed.

Her face seemed drained of all color, and her eyes had a frightened
look.

“Why, Aunt Mattie!” Judy exclaimed. “Is anything wrong?”

“This dreadful cottage!”

“You’ve been hearing music?” Judy surmised.

“Music?”

“What was it that upset you?” Judy asked, realizing she had made a poor
guess. “Not another one of those mysterious telephone calls?”

“No! No!” Miss Meadows stepped back so that the girls might enter the
cottage. “Just come in,” she invited. “Then you’ll hear for yourselves,
and I won’t need to explain!”




_Chapter 16_

ANOTHER DISTURBANCE


Scarcely knowing what to expect, Judy and Kathleen entered Calico
Cottage. Everything appeared quite normal, except that a chair in
the kitchen had been overturned.

“I upset it myself,” Miss Meadows explained. “I--I was rather excited,
I’m afraid.”

“Tell us what happened, Aunt Mattie,” Judy urged. “What disturbed you?”

“It was a dreadful sound from the basement. A sort of moan as if
someone were in pain. And then to top it, there came a series of loud
thumps, very much like muffled thunder.”

“That couldn’t have been someone setting off dynamite at a distance?”
Kathleen suggested. “I know the rangers were blasting trees in the park
area.”

“This sound came from the cellar,” Miss Meadows insisted.

“How long ago, Aunt Mattie?” questioned Judy.

“About ten minutes, I’d judge.”

“Did you go down there to check?”

“To the cellar?” Miss Meadows demanded. “I most assuredly did not!”

“Then I guess the job is up to us,” Judy said, looking directly at
Kathleen. “Where’s that key?”

“I don’t think you should go down into that dreary hole,” Miss Meadows
protested.

“Nonsense, Aunt Mattie! We investigated once before, and everything was
all right. You’ve not had the door unlocked since?”

“Absolutely, not. I’ve been here at the cottage all the while too.”

“Then no one could be down there.”

“I didn’t imagine those weird sounds,” Miss Meadows said. “If you had
been here--”

Suddenly she stiffened. From beneath the kitchen floor there issued
forth a series of muffled thuds.

“Hear it?” Miss Meadows whispered, staring fixedly at the locked cellar
door.

The sound ceased and the cottage was as quiet as before. Judy and
Kathleen stood transfixed, dreading to take the action which they felt
they must.

“Where’s that key?” Judy finally murmured, groping for it on the high
kitchen shelf.

“Don’t go down there,” Miss Meadows advised nervously. “It might be
dangerous.”

“It’s worse not to investigate,” Judy insisted. “You can’t stay here
and live in constant dread.”

Her fingers closed upon the key. She unlocked the door, but hesitated
as she peered down the dark stairway.

“Do you have a flashlight?” she asked Kathleen, who huddled at her
elbow.

“In my knapsack,” Kathleen replied. “But I left it on the station
wagon, never thinking I’d want it here.”

“There are candles on the shelf,” Miss Meadows remembered. “I’ll get
one, if you insist on going down there. I’d rather just move out of
this place though!”

“I don’t know where you’ll find another cottage on short notice,” Judy
told her regretfully. “Everything around here has been taken.”

“I can go to a hotel.”

“The closest one is eighteen miles away. Aunt Mattie, I don’t like
to urge you to stay, but there must be a logical explanation for
these strange noises. I mean to find it too! Let me have one of those
candles.”

Miss Meadows found it for her, and lighted the wick.

“Watch the drip of the wax,” she advised, “or you’ll burn your hand.”

The glowing candle made a flickering, ghostly circle of light on the
rough walls of the stairway.

Resolutely, Judy started down. Close behind her came Kathleen, while
Miss Meadows unwillingly brought up the rear.

Judy descended a half dozen steps, only to pause. A slight breath of
air caused the candle to waver and nearly go out. And at the same
moment, she caught an unpleasant odor which seemed to rise from the
darkness below.

“Mercy!” gasped Miss Meadows, as she too sniffed the air.

The musty scent became stronger as the three went on down. Judy
localized it in the main cellar room, toward the south east wall.

However, in slowly moving the candle about, she could find no cause for
the unpleasant odor.

“It’s such a strange smell,” Kathleen commented with a nervous shiver.
“A sort of stale air scent. But from where does it come?”

Judy asked Kathleen to hold the candle. Carefully, she ran her hand
over the brick wall, feeling along the line of crumbling mortar.

“There’s an opening here!” she suddenly exclaimed. “I can feel cool air
coming in!”

Excited by Judy’s discovery, Kathleen held the candle higher.

As she raised it in line with the brick which Judy’s exploring hand had
found, a direct current of air extinguished the flame.

The three were left in total darkness.

“I’ll get some matches,” Miss Meadows said eager to be out of the
basement. “But is there any need to explore further? Haven’t we
discovered everything there is to learn?”

“Not quite everything,” said Judy. “We’ve learned where that musty
odor comes from though. It is being blasted in through the broken
mortar.”

“How strange,” Kathleen murmured. “Shouldn’t there be solid dirt or
rock behind these walls and under the floor?”

“One would think so,” Judy agreed thoughtfully, “unless--”

“There might be a tunnel connected with the cottage!” Kathleen
speculated.

“A tunnel, possibly tied up with Calico Cave,” Judy carried on the
thought. “Even so, that doesn’t explain those strange banging noises.”

Leaving the girls alone in the cellar, Miss Meadows went quickly for
matches. She returned promptly and the candle was relighted.

This time, Judy was careful to shield it with her hand so that it would
not be blown out.

In the uncertain light, the three were able to see a faint, rectangular
outline on the wall, which marked a division between old and newer
bricks.

“At one time, there must have been an opening here!” Judy asserted,
elated by her discovery. “A long while ago, apparently, the passageway
or whatever it is, was bricked over. Now that the mortar is falling
away, cold air filters in.”

“From where?” Kathleen demanded.

“That’s what we’ll have to learn, if we can. I have a hunch Captain
Hager might be able to supply interesting information.”

“I’ll bet he could at that!” cried Kathleen. “Since he lived in the old
house so many years, he must have known about this bricked up place on
the wall. In fact, he may have closed it himself.”

“The captain hinted that Mr. Krumm made a bad mistake in building the
cottage on the old foundation,” Judy recalled. “I’m sure he knows a lot
about this place that he hasn’t told!”

“Say, wouldn’t it be great if we could solve the mystery before we
leave Pine Cone Camp? You’d win a rental bonus too from Mr. Krumm,
Judy!”

“I don’t care about that part, but it would be fun to hit upon an
explanation for everything that’s happened here. The thing that puzzles
me most is that boy with the flute--”

“Boy with a flute?” Miss Meadow interposed, her voice rising.

Judy regretted her slip of tongue. Nevertheless, having made the
mistake, she could do no less than tell her aunt about the strange
musical notes which had startled the Scouts during the night they had
spent at the cottage.

“What manner of place have I rented?” Miss Meadows gasped. “Is the
cottage haunted?”

“By the spirit of the White Witch,” Judy said with a giggle. Then,
becoming sober, she added: “I’m sure there’s no danger here, Aunt
Mattie. Even so, you mustn’t stay another night. Come with us to Pine
Cone Camp. We’ll find a bed for you, and tomorrow we can start looking
for another cottage.”

“And have everyone say I was frightened away?” Miss Meadows reproved
her niece. “The very idea!”

“You mean you’re willing to stay?”

“Yes, I intend to,” Miss Meadows announced firmly. “At least for a day
or so.”

“I’ll remain with you,” Judy offered. “Not that I’ll be any protection.”

To her surprise, Miss Meadows turned her aside. “No,” she told Judy,
“you’ve already lost a great deal of camp fun on my account. You’re not
to worry about me any more, or Calico Cottage.”

“But to leave you alone--”

“I’ll manage,” Miss Meadows said dryly. “Let’s go upstairs now, or you
girls will miss your station wagon.”

“Goodness, I forgot about the driver calling for us!” Kathleen
exclaimed. “We’ve been down here in the cellar quite a while.”

Hastily, the three ascended to the main floor of the cottage. Miss
Meadows locked the cellar door and replaced the key on the cupboard
shelf.

“I intend to forget about those stupid noises,” she asserted. “It will
take a very powerful ghost indeed to dislodge me from my bed tonight.”

Greatly relieved that her aunt was taking such a matter-of-fact view
of an unpleasant situation, Judy said no more about the disturbances.
She and Kathleen began to watch for the camp station wagon, and ten
minutes later, saw its headlights wink in signal from the main road.

“Goodbye, Aunt Mattie,” Judy said, giving her a hasty peck on the
cheek. “If anything should go wrong tonight, you’ll call me at Pine
Cone Camp?”

“I’ll call the police,” Miss Meadows threatened. “Now run along, and
enjoy yourselves.”

Enroute back to camp, Judy and Kathleen did not report their experience
at Calico Cottage. During the drive up the mountain, they were somewhat
silent, but the others took it for granted that the two girls were worn
out from the day’s hike.

In truth, Judy was very tired. Even before the “lights out” signal, she
was snug in her cot, with the warm blankets tucked around her ears.

“I feel as if I could sleep until noon tomorrow,” she murmured
drowsily. “Is there any law, I wonder, about skipping breakfast, and
staying in bed?”

If there was an answer to her question, Judy did not hear it. She fell
into a sound slumber, lulled by the chirp of crickets.

Sometime toward morning, Judy began to dream. A confusion of images
flitted through her mind. She thought she was exploring a cave, that
the White Witch had come alive and was advancing toward her in a
menacing manner.

In her dream, she became aware of a horrible odor. The scent enveloped
her, stifling her so that she could not breathe.

Awakening, Judy found herself battling the blankets which she had
pulled up over her head. She laughed in relief. The White Witch was
only a nightmare! There was no disagreeable odor--or was there?

Thrusting the covers aside, Judy sat up in bed. Fearfully, she sniffed
the air. The odor had not been entirely in her dream! The air was
chilly, filled with an acrid scent she could not identify immediately.

Then suddenly, Judy knew. She bolted out of bed, the cold chills
racing down her spine. The tent was filled with smoke! The camp must be
afire!




_Chapter 17_

SMOKE IN THE WOODS


Thoroughly alert now, Judy awakened her tent mates, warning them of the
danger.

“What’s this?” mumbled Ardeth, drugged by sleep and unwilling to leave
her comfortable cot.

“Get out of here fast, unless you want to be burned!” Judy said
tersely, giving her a hard shake. “The forest is on fire!”

The other Beaver Patrol Scouts who shared the tent, already were out of
bed and dressing with frenzied haste. Judy pulled on her own clothes,
aware that more and more smoke was swirling about the canvas shelter.

Once outside, she saw the source of the fire. Heavy black smoke was
billowing toward the camp from the woods where duff and debris were
ablaze.

Judy’s first moment of relief that camp buildings and tents were
intact, gave way to concern. The surface fire was dangerously close.
Fed by a light but steady wind, the flames were moving toward the camp
with amazing speed!

As she started for the adjoining tents to awaken the girls there, a
gong in the main dining room sounded the first alarm.

Bong! Bong! Bong!

Tent flaps went apart, and sleep-eyed Scouts began to thrust tousled
heads out into the cold night air.

“What’s up?” demanded Beverly, one of the first Beaver Patrol girls to
scramble into her clothes. “Is the camp afire?”

“Not yet, but it will be if we don’t work fast!” Judy asserted. “Oh!”

She uttered a little scream as a flying brand, borne by the wind,
dropped in the grass only a few feet away.

Badly frightened, she and Beverly ran to stamp out the tiny flames.

By this time, the camp was in confusion. Scouts were pouring out of
their tents, milling about, chattering excitedly.

Unit leaders quickly gained control of the situation, ordering everyone
to the main lodge assembly room.

Miss Lubell spoke tersely to the girls.

“Now there is no cause for alarm,” she advised everyone. “The fire is
very close to our camp, and the wind is in this direction, but rangers
are on their way here. I notified them by telephone. The fire already
had been spotted from the observation tower.”

“Will we have to evacuate the camp?” inquired Miss Ward.

“That depends entirely upon whether or not the fire quickly can be
brought under control,” the camp director replied. “So far, it is not
wide-spread, but the head is moving in this direction.”

“Can’t we do anything until the rangers come?” Judy interposed.

“We can,” Miss Lubell said. “We can’t hope to fight the fire, but we
can take steps to keep it under control. Each unit is to report to
its leader and follow her orders. We’ll wet down the tents and the
buildings to protect them from flying sparks. Then we’ll make a fire
break by clearing a ditch ahead of the spreading flames!”

Pouring out of the assembly hall, the Beaver Patrol Scouts clustered
about their unit leader and Miss Ward. Under direction, they carried
buckets of water from the lake, dousing the walls of their tents
thoroughly.

To be prepared for a quick evacuation, in the event one was ordered,
they hastily tossed their belongings into suitcases.

This done, they raced to the edge of the camp, to assist counselors,
who frantically had started to dig a shallow trench or fire break.

Using garden hoes, rakes, spades and other implements at hand, the
Scouts rapidly cleared a band several feet wide between the camp and
the spreading ground fire.

A few sparks were flying, but those which dropped in dry grass,
instantly were extinguished by a unit assigned to that particular task.

By this time, the wind had spread the fire into an elliptical shape.
Inexorably, it crept nearer and nearer the trench the girls were
digging.

“It’s going to be nip and tuck to save the camp,” Miss Lubell gasped.
“Don’t give up, girls!”

Against the flames, trees were silhouetted as dark, towering shapes.
The sight was a terrifying one. But even though they could feel the
heat in their faces, the Scouts kept doggedly at work.

Then suddenly a cry went up.

“The rangers!” cried a Lone Tree Scout. “They’ve come!”

Judy drew a deep, tired sigh of relief as she saw the Forest Service
truck roll in with fire-fighting equipment.

“Our job is done now,” Miss Lubell said, wiping a smudge from her
cheek. “We’ll let the men take over. Everyone report in the assembly
room.”

The Scouts all checked in, and after washing up, watched the crew of
rangers attack the fire.

A tractor widened and completed the ditch started by the Scouts. This
task accomplished, rangers beat out some of the flames which had jumped
the “break,” and hooked up a power pump.

Sleep was out of the question for the excited Scouts. They kept in
orderly groups, but remained at the assembly room windows, watching
every phase of the efficient fire fighting work.

The Beaver Patrol girls, those of the Lone Tree unit, and the Oriole
outfit, volunteered to help in the kitchen. Gallons of coffee were
prepared for the rangers.

“We’ve made enough for an army of workers!” Judy laughed.

The beverage was kept hot, ready to serve whenever a tired fire fighter
could leave his post.

By four o’clock, the rangers announced that the fire finally was under
complete control. Relaxing a bit from their arduous labors, the men
took turns dropping around at the kitchen for coffee and a sandwich.

Arthur Wentz, one of the first rangers to come, praised the Scouts
warmly for their well organized efforts prior to the arrival of the
forest service truck.

“This could have been a bad fire,” he remarked. “There are three
types--surface, ground and crown. But all start as surface fires.”

Judy asked the ranger to distinguish between the different
classifications.

“Surface fires, as the name implies, burn only the loose debris on top
of the ground,” he explained. “That’s the type of thing we encountered
here. Sometimes, the fire eats down into the layer of undecomposed
material on the forest floor, and then you have a ground fire. The most
difficult of all are those which spread into the trees, or the crown
fires.”

“How do you suppose this one started?” Miss Ward asked the ranger.

“That’s hard to say,” he replied.

Lowell Diethelm, the ranger Judy had met in the village the previous
evening, now tramped into the kitchen. He had overheard Miss Ward’s
question and the reply.

“It’s plain enough how the fire started,” he commented, pouring himself
a mug of coffee.

“How?” Judy asked.

“Someone from this camp has been careless about fire.”

A stunned silence followed the observation. Then, almost as a unit, the
Girl Scouts began to protest.

“I don’t think that’s fair to say!” exclaimed Kathleen indignantly. “Do
you have any proof that the fire was started by anyone in this camp?”

“No proof,” the ranger admitted. “Just circumstantial evidence. You
girls had a cook-out last night?”

“We started a fire at Fountain Falls,” Judy said. “You knew about that.
We put it out too!”

“Anyway, that’s miles from here!” Betty Bashe broke in. “This fire
started close to our camp.”

“Exactly my point,” replied Diethelm. “Any other cook-outs last night?”

“Our unit had one,” spoke up a Scout from the Lone Tree patrol. “We
were accompanied by our leaders though, and built our fire on a rock.
Every spark was extinguished before we left the spot.”

“That’s what you thought,” Diethelm said, none too pleasantly. “I’m
not saying the Scouts started this fire, but I do say, it looks rather
suspicious. If the fire hadn’t been reported so quickly, the entire
camp might have burned.”

“That’s for sure,” agreed Arthur Wentz. “But I think you’re being
unjust to the girls, Lowell. The fire may have been started by a
carelessly dropped cigarette or a match. Or it could have been
deliberately set.”

“What’s that?” Diethelm demanded, startled.

“Just a little thought I had,” Wentz replied with an odd smile.

Diethelm seemed to have been made uncomfortable by the remark and
pursued the subject no further. He gulped down his coffee and soon left
the kitchen.

“Don’t take what he said too seriously,” Wentz told the Scouts. “This
camp has a good record. No one knows how the fire started.”

“I can assure you that it was not touched off by any of our girls,”
asserted Miss Lubell firmly. “We’ve taken every precaution against
fire.”

Although heavy smoke still hung over the camp area, the flames no
longer were spreading. A ranger was assigned to remain behind to watch
the smoldering debris. The others loaded their truck and presently
drove away.

Worn out by their strenuous activities, the Scouts returned to their
cots to try to snatch a few winks of sleep before dawn. Their eyes
smarted, but tired as they were, they were too excited to relax. Most
of the girls were relieved when the gong sounded as a signal for them
to dress again and assemble for breakfast.

Great quantities of hot chocolate, scrambled eggs, toast and fruit,
brought cheer to the Scouts. Nevertheless, the main topic at the table
was the unjust accusation which Lowell Diethelm had leveled at the
organization.

“I’ve never liked that ranger,” Judy remarked to Virginia, who sat
beside her. “I guess it’s mean to say, because a Girl Scout should try
to like folks, but there’s something about him--”

“I know what you mean,” nodded Virginia, reaching for another piece of
toast. “He doesn’t seem friendly as the other rangers do.”

“I can’t get over what happened today about that trucker,” Judy went
on, thinking aloud. “Suppose I was right, and Diethelm was mistaken--”

She broke off then, for Miss Ward had come into the dining hall, and
was signaling to her.

“Judy, you’re wanted at the telephone,” the teacher called. “Your aunt,
I think.”

Judy went quickly to Miss Lubell’s office. The call must be important,
she reasoned, else her aunt would not have phoned at such an early
morning hour. She was afraid Aunt Mattie had learned of the fire and
was alarmed for her safety. Either that, or the ghost of Calico Cottage
had put in another appearance!

As she took down the receiver, her first fears were confirmed. Miss
Meadows was in a great state of agitation, having been informed that a
fire was raging at Pine Cone Camp.

“It was only a little fire, and it never reached our camp,” Judy
explained patiently. “Now don’t worry one tiny bit, Aunt Mattie!
Everything is all right here.”

“Well, that’s a relief,” Miss Meadows sighed. “I confess, I’ve spent a
dreadful night.”

“No more disturbances, I hope.”

“It depends upon what you mean by disturbances,” Miss Meadows returned
stiffly. “There were no weird sounds from the basement. But other
things happened.”

“What sort of things?”

“I can’t tell you over the telephone,” Miss Meadows answered. “Just
come as quickly as you can to the cottage!”

And with that, she hung up the receiver.




_Chapter 18_

AN URGENT CALL


It was well after seven o’clock when Judy, accompanied by Kathleen,
arrived at Calico Cottage.

The trip down the mountain in the station wagon had not been without
excitement. Less than a half mile from the cottage, the driver had been
halted by state patrolmen, who had set up a road block.

At first, the girls had assumed that motorists on the main highway were
being stopped because of the fire which still smoldered in the Pine
Cone Camp area. Therefore, it came as a surprise to learn that the road
block had been set up for an entirely different purpose.

The state highway patrolman informed them that a truckload of auto
parts had been hi-jacked during the night on a lonely stretch of road
between the towns of Silverton and Grove City, some miles away. The
truck was known to have followed the mountain road, making for the
state line, yet had seemed to disappear into thin air.

“Somehow those birds get wind of where our road blocks are set up,”
the highway patrolman had said. “The hi-jackers have a hide-out. When
we’re not on their trail, they slip off the road somewhere and wait
until the coast is clear.”

The bold tactics of the hi-jackers were of intense interest to the
girls because of their own meeting with two of the men believed to be
members of the gang.

Nor had Judy erased from her mind the fact that only a few hours
earlier, she had seen the man she believed to be Joe Pompilli.

She was reflecting upon the matter as the station wagon driver let the
girls off at Calico Cottage. Why, she wondered, had Lowell Diethelm
been so certain that she was mistaken in the identification?

“He seemed honest enough in thinking that the man was a regular trucker
on the road,” she thought. “But if I were right, and Diethelm made a
mistake--”

Her reflections were interrupted by Kathleen, who nudged her in the
ribs.

“Why so sober, Judy?”

“I was just speculating on those hi-jackers, Kathy,” Judy replied as
they started across the dew-laden lawn. “I’m more than half convinced
that we made a bad mistake last night.”

“You think we let Joe Pompilli get away?”

“We must have. Kathy, he and that other fellow we didn’t know, may have
been killing time at the restaurant, waiting for that truckload of auto
parts to go through town! Then, they merely followed, and picked the
truck off at a convenient spot on the road.”

“That makes a nice sounding explanation,” Kathleen chuckled. “But
there’s one bad flaw in your reasoning.”

“Two of ’em,” Judy admitted with a grin. “First, it doesn’t seem
logical that Joe Pompilli would dare show up in this area when he must
know that state highway patrolmen are on the alert.”

“He was badly hurt in that accident too,” Kathleen added.

“Maybe not as seriously as we thought. The other defect in my theory is
that Lowell Diethelm positively identified him as a regular trucker on
the road.”

“That’s the part one can’t get around,” Kathleen nodded soberly.
“Either the patrolmen made a mistake in identifying an ordinary
trucker as Joe Pompilli, or Lowell Diethelm has been misled.”

“In either case, I guess it’s too late for us to do anything about it
now,” Judy admitted. “We had our chance, and we muffed it.”

Walking carefully so that they would not soak their shoes with the
heavy dew, the girls tramped across the lawn to the back door of Calico
Cottage.

Miss Meadows, who had seen them coming, flung open the door.

“I’m ashamed to have telephoned you,” she apologized. “Have you had
breakfast?”

“An early one,” Judy replied as she and Kathleen entered the warm
kitchen. “If those are muffins I smell, we can eat another one though!”

“Blueberry muffins,” Miss Meadows smiled, peeping into the oven. “You
arrived at just the right time, for they’ll be done in three minutes.”

“Aunt Mattie, why did you send such an urgent telephone message?” Judy
asked abruptly. “You said it wasn’t the ghost again.”

“No, the basement was quiet enough last night.”

“Then what did happen?”

“I know you think I’m nervous and silly--”

“No such thing, Aunt Mattie.”

“It was those lights that bothered me again. Now that it’s morning,
I feel much better about it. But last night, and until after I
telephoned, I felt so jittery.”

“Lights on the private road?” Judy questioned.

Miss Meadows did not answer until after she had removed the muffins
from the oven. Then she said:

“I awoke about two o’clock, I’d judge. I can’t explain it, but I had a
strong feeling that something was wrong. I lay there in bed for awhile,
listening. I could hear the muffled rumble of a big truck engine.”

“Nothing so unusual about that, Aunt Mattie. A great many trucks pass
on the main highway, even at night.”

“This truck didn’t pass,” Miss Meadows said impressively. “I saw the
lights flash past my bedroom window. Because I was nervous and couldn’t
sleep, I got up and looked out. I saw the truck stop, and the lights
went off. Then the truck turned down that old road.”

Judy and Kathleen had listened attentively to Miss Meadows’ account.
They exchanged a quick glance but remained silent.

“I suppose there’s no occasion to be bothered about a truck turning
down a private road,” Judy’s aunt chattered on. “It shouldn’t worry me,
I know. But I kept imagining all sorts of things, wondering if those
men might be hi-jackers.”

“Aunt Mattie, we don’t consider you one bit silly to be nervous about
it,” Judy said quickly. “You didn’t telephone the state highway patrol?”

“No, I thought of it, but after all, I didn’t know but what the trucks
had a right to be on that road. It could have been loggers?”

“How long did the truck remain on the private road?” Judy asked.

“So far as I know, it’s still there. I set up and watched until dawn.
Since then, I’ve been rather busy.”

“If the truck is still on that road, we should check--” Kathleen
suggested quickly.

“I think we should,” Miss Meadows agreed. “I’d have done it myself,
only to tell you the truth, I was afraid to go alone.”

“Who wouldn’t be?” Judy backed her up. “When do we start? Right now?”

“No, finish your breakfast first,” Miss Meadows urged. “Such nice
muffins shouldn’t be wasted.”

Their thoughts on the investigation before them, Judy and Kathleen ate
quickly. Miss Meadows apologized for not having any milk to offer.

“I ran out yesterday,” she remarked, “and the new milkman always comes
very late.”

“The new milkman?” Judy repeated, nearly dropping her knife. “What
became of Bart?”

“I understand he’s given up his job. The new man told me that Bart
quit because of something special he wanted to do before the start of
college.”

“Something special,” mused Judy. “You know what I think! Bart quit so
he could thoroughly explore Calico Cave!”

“Oh, dear, I hope not,” Miss Meadows murmured. “That sounds frightfully
dangerous. You don’t think he’d explore very far alone?”

“I certainly do,” replied Judy. “From the little Bart said to me, I’m
sure he hopes to solve the mystery of what became of his father. To do
that, he’d have to brave the siphon.”

“Gracious! I never heard of anything so reckless!” Miss Meadows gasped.
“Why, the authorities shouldn’t allow it!”

“I don’t imagine Bart told anyone of his plan,” Judy answered. “He’s
thoroughly familiar with the cave, and it would be safe enough for him
to explore, providing he didn’t try to go through the siphon.”

“Just what is a siphon?” Kathleen inquired.

“As I understand it, a siphon is a tunnel through the cave, with a
submerged ceiling. If one were a good swimmer, as Bart apparently is,
one might dive and swim through it to open air on the other side.”

“That’s assuming that the tunnel wasn’t very long,” Miss Meadows
commented.

“True,” Judy nodded. “It would be a terrifying experience. Only a very
courageous and foolhardy explorer would attempt it.”

“Bart’s just the type to risk it!” Kathleen asserted. “I wonder when he
plans to tackle the siphon?”

“From what the new milkman told me, he may be in the cave even now!”
Miss Meadows said with a shudder. “The mere thought of it frightens me.”

“Bart knows how to take care of himself,” Judy declared to relieve her
aunt’s mind somewhat. “I’m sure he does.”

Breakfast over, Miss Meadows hastily cleared away the few dishes which
had been used. She refused to let the girls wash them, insisting that
she would stack them in the sink for a good soaking.

“Let’s explore the road to the cave now,” she urged. “I’ll feel much
better if I satisfy myself that everything is all right.”

“We could call the Forest Service or one of the state highway
patrolmen, if you’d rather,” Kathleen proposed.

“If the truck shouldn’t be there, or if it had a right to be, I’d
never live down the mistake I’d made,” Miss Meadows said. “No, I’d
prefer to do a bit of checking for myself first.”

She put on her heavy jacket as protection against the morning chill,
and locked all the doors. The three then crossed the main highway and
turned down the narrow rutty dirt road.

The sun was showing itself through the tall trees, as the explorers
made their way down the steep slope. Almost at once, Miss Meadows
triumphantly pointed to heavy tire tracks on the roadbed.

“See, I was right!” she exclaimed. “Those tire marks show that a big
truck went down this road last night.”

“Apparently only in one direction too,” Judy agreed. “This road
dead-ends, so either the truck had to turn around and come back, or
it’s still down there somewhere.”

Quickening their pace, but becoming very quiet, the three moved on.

Presently they came to the end of the road.

“No truck here!” Kathleen exclaimed, halting.

“Here’s where it made a turn,” Judy said, pointing to deep tire marks
in the road and grass.

Then she saw the truck itself. It had been driven entirely off the road
and parked in a thick clump of bushes behind a shield of trees. Even
so, the massive vehicle was only partially hidden from view.

While Kathleen and Miss Meadows waited tensely, Judy cautiously crept
through the bushes to obtain a closer glimpse of the big truck.

The cab was deserted. Had the truck run out of gas perhaps, or was it
being hidden there to escape detection?

Judy was quite certain she knew the answer, but to confirm her
suspicions, she circled the transport. At the rear, she tried the big
double doors which gave access to the cargo. They were locked.

Unable to learn more, she returned to report to her aunt and Kathleen.

“I’m convinced this is the truck that the highway patrolmen want to
stop,” she informed them. “After the road blocks have been removed, the
hi-jackers may be able to slip out of here and get safely away!”

“Oh, no, they won’t!” announced Miss Meadows with grim determination.
“We’ll tip off the state highway headquarters! I’ll telephone.”

“Someone should stay here to keep watch,” Judy said. “The driver may
return at any minute and try to pull out.”

“That’s so,” Miss Meadows agreed. “I--I guess I’d better stay, while
you girls telephone.”

“No, you go to Calico Cottage,” Judy urged. “Kathleen and I will wait
here.”

“You’re not afraid?”

“No, you’ll have help here in just a few minutes.”

“I’ll hurry as fast as I can,” Miss Meadows promised, starting away.
“Get into the bushes, and keep out of sight until I’m back here with
the law!”




_Chapter 19_

THE HIDE-OUT


Left alone, Judy and Kathleen crept into the thicket at the left hand
side of the road. The air was damp and chilly and leaves dripped
moisture. In a very few minutes, the girls began to weary of crouching
in such uncomfortable positions.

“That truck driver must have skipped out,” Kathleen muttered. “It’s
sort of silly to hide here.”

“I don’t think so,” Judy replied, keeping her voice low.

“I wish we knew where the driver went.” Disregarding caution, Kathleen
straightened up from her crouched position and carefully looked about.

She could see a portion of the trail which led toward Calico Cave.
As she stood thus, a little dog came into view, trotting from the
direction of the cavern.

“Why, it’s Pete!” Kathleen exclaimed, speaking much louder than she had
intended. “Do you suppose Bart is somewhere near, or in the cave?”

“He must be,” Judy agreed. She added in warning: “But do quiet down.
If we keep sounding off, we’ll give our hiding place away to anyone who
comes along.”

“Pete is onto it now!” Kathleen agreed in dismay.

The little dog had halted alertly on the trail. After sniffing the air,
he left the path and came directly over to the bushes where the two
girls had taken shelter.

To their consternation, he began to bark and to jerk his head, as if
inviting them to follow him to the cave.

Judy seized the little dog, and tightly held his jaws so that he could
not bark.

“This is a fine howdy-do!” she muttered. “Pete will give us away if
anyone is within a mile of here!”

“Do you suppose Bart could be close?” Kathleen speculated. “Pete
plainly is trying to get us to follow him to the cave.”

“If we let him go, he’ll set up a fearful clatter. I can’t hold his
jaws together forever either!”

“Bart would be a big help to us if we could find him.”

“We could see if he’s at the cave entrance,” Judy said reluctantly. “I
don’t think we’ll find him though, and we’d be leaving a good hiding
place.”

“We can be careful,” Kathleen returned. “Help from the Forest Service
or highway headquarters should be coming quite soon.”

Allowing herself to be persuaded, Judy followed Kathleen from the leafy
shelter. She kept tight hold of Pete however, not allowing him to bark
or scramble out of her arms.

The rocky path wound through the trees and around big boulders.
Presently, the girls were within view of the dark entranceway to the
cave.

Judy halted, thinking that she saw a tiny wisp of smoke emerging from
the cavern. In that moment of inattention, Pete made a convulsive
movement and before she could regain her grip, leaped to the ground.

Yipping excitedly, he ran toward the cave entrance.

With a gasp of dismay, Judy thrust Kathleen back into a thicket, and
herself crouched behind a rock.

It was well that the girls took refuge, for Pete’s loud barking had not
gone unheard.

A dark figure appeared silhouetted in the opening of the cave. Judy
could not see the face of the heavy-set man, but she knew instantly
from his build that he was not Bart Ranieau.

“There’s that confounded mutt again!” the girls heard the man exclaim.
“He’ll give us away!”

“Slug him with a rock!” came advice from inside the cave.

The man in the entranceway, heaved a stone which missed its mark by
mere inches. Pete barked the louder.

“Put a bullet through him,” was the next gruff advice.

“Don’t dare,” the girls heard the reply. “A shot would be heard too
far.”

“If we don’t get out of this hole pretty soon, that dog will have the
whole town down on us,” the other growled. “Quiet him somehow.”

“Don’t pay any attention to him and he’ll shut up,” the first man said.
“If we can coax him in here, I’ll wring his neck!”

Pete did stop barking after a few more excited yips, but canine caution
kept him from going closer to the cave. In vain the two men tried to
coax him into the cavern. Pete lay flat on his belly on the path and
whined.

Finally, they abandoned the effort to get him inside, and themselves
moved back out of view in the darkness.

For a long while, Judy and Kathleen remained motionless, afraid to stir
lest they disclose their presence. Both were convinced that the two
men in the cave were the hi-jackers, and that they merely were waiting
there until they safely could move out their truck and stolen cargo.

“We can’t stay here,” Judy finally whispered to her chum. “Let’s make a
break for it. If we’re seen, we’ll have to run for our lives.”

Moving stealthily, the girls slipped from their hiding place.

Pete saw them go and cocked his head attentively. But to their intense
relief, he did not bark or try to follow them.

Safely, the girls retraced their way to the private road.

Once there, Judy anxiously looked up the slope for a glimpse of her
aunt or the assistance which she hoped would come.

“I guess we’ll have to hide in the bushes again,” Kathleen proposed.
“Pete may ferret us out too.”

As the girls debated what action to take, Judy saw that a green coupe
had turned down the private road.

“A Forest Service car!” she exclaimed, over-joyed. “Good Aunt Mattie!
She must have put through a fast telephone call to the ranger station.
Our troubles are over!”

“I thought your aunt intended to call the highway patrol headquarters,”
Kathleen commented, watching the approaching car with troubled eyes.

“Maybe she called ’em both. At any rate, a forest ranger is just what
the doctor ordered!”

Judy rushed out to meet the approaching automobile, waving her arms to
attract attention.

The car drew up with a slight squeak of brakes. Judy saw then that the
driver was Lowell Diethelm, and he seemed as surprised to see her and
Kathleen as they were to encounter him on the lonely road.

“Did Aunt Mattie reach you?” Judy demanded.

The ranger’s startled expression disclosed that he did not know what
she was talking about.

“I guess Aunt Mattie hasn’t had time to get word through,” Judy went
on. “Anyway, you’re here in time to nab those hi-jackers!”

She and Kathleen then breathlessly told of their suspicions, and
pointed out the big truck which had been hidden in the thicket.

In their anxiety to tell the story clearly and fast, neither girl
noticed that Diethelm was watching them in an odd sort of way, but not
asking many questions.

When Judy finally ran out of breath, the ranger motioned for the two
girls to get into the coupe.

“But aren’t you going to do anything about it?” Judy demanded. “Don’t
you intend to find out if those men hiding in the cave are hi-jackers?”

“Sure, I intend to do something about it,” Diethelm drawled, “but I’m
not foolhardy. We’re up against a tough gang. There may be shooting. I
need reenforcements.”

“I guess that’s right,” Judy agreed. Her gaze fell upon the radio
equipment in the ranger’s car. “Couldn’t you call the ranger station?”

“Sure,” Diethelm said again. “Sure. Come on, get in, and I’ll take care
of it.”

Judy and Kathleen obeyed, sliding in beside the ranger. He turned the
car around in the narrow roadway, heading it toward the main highway.

“I’ll drive you up the hill,” he said. “It’s safer that way. Then if
there should be shooting, you’ll be all right.”

“Can’t we get word to the ranger station right away?” Judy urged
again. “Those men may decide to try to pull out of here any minute.”

“Take it easy,” Diethelm advised. “Let me handle this, will you?”

“Sorry,” Judy mumbled. “I didn’t mean to suggest--only--”

“Only what?”

“Nothing,” Judy replied shortly.

Diethelm reached across, snapping a lock on the door of the coupe. The
gesture seemed careless enough. Yet, why should he have reason to lock
the automobile? Judy, suddenly uneasy, glanced at Kathleen and saw that
her chum looked frightened.

“So your aunt is telephoning the state highway patrol station?” the
ranger remarked easily. “How long ago was that?”

“Five--maybe ten minutes ago,” Judy answered. She was trying hard to
smother the suspicion which had formed in her mind.

“Your aunt went to the cottage to phone?”

“Yes.” Judy hesitated and then said earnestly: “Won’t you please call
ranger headquarters now on your radio telephone? It’s important to get
help fast. Aunt Mattie may have failed to get her call through.”

Diethelm smiled and flipped a switch on the radio. He fumbled with it
as he drove efficiently with one hand.

“Car 23 to Headquarters. Car 23 to Headquarters,” he called.

“Go ahead, Diethelm,” came the order from headquarters.

“Nothing to report, sir. No fires sighted.”

“Any sign of the hi-jackers? They’re reported to have headed into your
patrol area.”

Diethelm spoke clearly and in a detached manner. “No sign of ’em
anywhere,” he replied. “Inform the highway patrol, they may as
well lift the road block. That’s right, sir. I’ve checked the area
thoroughly. No sign of ’em.”




_Chapter 20_

TREACHERY


Judy and Kathleen scarcely could believe that they had heard the
ranger’s radio message correctly.

For a stunned moment, they sat in dead silence, unable to comprehend
what had transpired.

Diethelm wore the inconspicuous pine tree badge of the forest rangers,
but he had never seemed friendly or helpful as had the other Forest
Service men.

Judy had sensed the man’s antagonism almost from the first moment
of their meeting. Until this night, however, she had never actually
distrusted him.

Now, as the meaning of his message to headquarters penetrated her
brain, she realized that he deliberately had given false information to
his superior officers. Information which would aid the hi-jackers, who
awaited the lifting of the road block to rush their stolen cargo across
the state line!

As the car climbed the steep incline, Kathleen suddenly reached for the
door handle.

“I wouldn’t do that!” Diethelm ordered sharply. “Stay in this car!”

“You’re making us prisoners?” Kathleen gasped, shaken by the ranger’s
treachery.

“You asked for this,” Diethelm retorted. “If you’d kept to your own
affairs, no one would have bothered you. Now you’ve poked your pretty
little noses in, you’ll have to take the consequences!”

“Which are--?” interposed Judy. She was no longer frightened, but
smoldered with a deep, burning anger.

“I’ll drive you some distance from here and dump you in the woods,”
Diethelm informed her. “By the time you find your way out, we’ll be
over the state line. This is our last haul.”

“So you’re one of the hi-jackers!” Kathleen accused shrilly. “A
disgrace to the ranger uniform!”

“I’ve not been in the service long,” Diethelm said. “It means nothing
to me. I adopted the uniform only to serve my own purpose. For six
months it’s been a cinch to run cargo through, but lately the state
highway patrol has bottled up most of the roads. We’ll move on to
another state.”

The car had reached the main highway. Judy could see Calico Cottage
through the morning mist, but there was no sign of her aunt, or of any
help.

Everything was painfully clear now! The trucker she and Kathleen
had seen the previous night at the restaurant, had indeed been Joe
Pompilli. Either he, or his runners now were at the cave, awaiting a
chance to slip their cargo over the state line. And with the road block
soon to be lifted, that chance might come very soon!

The coupe turned onto the main highway, and started up the winding
mountain road. Judy saw Diethelm glance anxiously at the gasoline gauge.

Her pulse leaped with hope, for she saw that the pointer already stood
on the empty mark, and was giving only an occasional convulsive jerk.

“We’re about out of gas,” Diethelm muttered.

“No filling stations on this road for three miles,” Judy said in
satisfaction.

“We rangers have supply caches,” Diethelm dashed her hopes again. “My
own private one is just ahead.”

A few hundred yards farther up the road, he pulled off onto the
right-of-way. Back among the trees, Judy and Kathleen saw the gasoline
supply tank, marked with the Forest Service name.

Diethelm reached for a can on the floor behind the seat. As he got out
of the car, he tapped the revolver in his holster.

“Now don’t you move or try to get out of this car!” he ordered. “I’ll
have my eye on you. I’m warning that if you try to escape, I’ll shoot.”

Diethelm then strode to the gasoline storage tank, hurriedly starting
to fill his can.

“Lean forward--block off the window, so he can’t see me,” Judy
instructed Kathleen tersely.

“He’s watching us. If we try to get out, I’m afraid he’ll carry out
his threat to shoot.”

“We can’t hope to get away,” Judy admitted. “But there’s one outside
chance we can get through to ranger headquarters on the radio phone.
I’m going to risk it.”

Now that she knew her friend’s scheme, Kathleen obediently shifted her
position, so that her back temporarily shielded Judy from view.

In an instant, Judy had snapped the radio phone on.

“Car 23 to Headquarters!” she called excitedly into the transmitter.
“Emergency call! Emergency call!”

“Headquarters to Car 23,” came the reply. “Who the deuce is this?
Diethelm--”

“I’m a Girl Scout--held a prisoner in Diethelm’s car,” Judy broke
in. Aware that Diethelm himself had dropped the gasoline can and was
striding toward the coupe, her words tumbled over each other in her
haste to get them out. “The hi-jackers are at the cave! Their truck--”

The car door was jerked open at that point, and the radio phone ripped
from Judy’s hand. Diethelm clicked the switch off, pulling the
girl bodily from the coupe.

“Now you’ve done it!” he snarled, shoving her so hard that she fell to
the ground. “Little fool!”

Despite his previous threat, Diethelm did not touch his revolver. His
face contorted by worry, he seemed uncertain what to do for a moment.

Tersely then, he ordered Kathleen out of the car also.

“Turn your backs and start walking into the woods,” he ordered the two
girls. “Keep walking. Don’t look back or I’ll shoot.”

Kathleen pulled Judy to her feet, and they slowly moved off into the
woods.

“Walk faster!” Diethelm shouted.

The girls obediently increased their speed, stumbling as they climbed
over fallen logs and other forest debris.

Moments passed, and Judy dared to look over her shoulder. No longer
could she see the car or the roadway.

But as she paused, she heard the roar of the coupe’s engine.

“He’s filled the gas tank and he’s pulling out!” she declared. “Now to
get help, if we can.”

Hurrying back the way they had come, the girls reached the roadside in
time to see the coupe disappearing around a curve in the direction from
which it had come.

“He’s going back to the cave to warn the hi-jackers!” Judy guessed
shrewdly. “He must know I got through to the ranger headquarters!”

“Then that means that the hi-jackers probably will try to move their
truck out now!” Kathleen exclaimed. “They may make it too, because
it isn’t far to the state line and the road block probably has been
lifted.”

“We must stop them somehow! Let’s get back to Calico Cottage as fast as
we can!”

They pounded down the road, hoping as they ran that a car would come
along. None did. In Diethelm’s coupe, the distance they had traveled
from the junction with the private road had seemed very short. Now, the
reverse was true.

Though the distance could not be more than a third of a mile, it seemed
endless to the two Scouts. Alternately running and dog-trotting, they
finally reached Calico Cottage, winded and perspiring.

As they crossed the yard, Miss Meadows came to meet them.

“I’ve had such a time,” she began. “At first, I couldn’t get my call
through. Why, what’s happened?”

Judy explained only briefly. She cut her story short by demanding:
“Aunt Mattie, how soon do you think help will get here?”

“Ten minutes or longer. My call just went through. Before that the line
was busy, and I couldn’t get the operator to understand that this was
an emergency!”

“Ten minutes!” Judy groaned. “That will give Diethelm all the time he
needs to warn those men!”

“I saw a ranger car turn down the private road quite awhile ago,” Miss
Meadows contributed.

“That was Diethelm,” Judy said desperately. “We’ve notified the ranger
headquarters, but I doubt they can get men here quickly enough either!”

“If only we could block the private road somehow, so those hi-jackers
can’t get their truck out!” Kathleen exclaimed. “What could we use?”

Frantically, the three looked about the premises, but not an object was
available which would offer an impediment to a powerful truck.

“The clothesline,” Miss Meadows suggested doubtfully. “We could tie it
to trees, across the road.”

“It would snap in an instant,” Judy said. “I doubt even a wire would
delay them.”

“Then there’s nothing we can do,” Miss Meadows said desperately.
“Absolutely nothing.”

“Nails?” proposed Kathleen. “We could throw them on the road and hope
they’d spear the tires.”

“There’s a can of nails on the porch,” Miss Meadows supplied eagerly.
“The carpenter who must have built this cottage, apparently left them.”

“It’s an idea,” Judy said slowly, “but it won’t work. Those big truck
tires would roll right over the nails without a puncture. Not even
glass would cut them.”

“I guess that’s right,” Miss Meadows admitted, crestfallen. “Oh, it’s
hopeless.”

Judy, however, had a different idea. She was gazing speculatively at
the “Welcome” mat on the doorstep.

“I think I know of a way to stop that truck if it tries to come
through!” she cried. “My scheme is fantastic, but I’m sure it will
work!”




_Chapter 21_

TRUCKER’S WELCOME


“How can we stop the truck if it tries to come through?” Kathleen
demanded eagerly. “What is your idea, Judy?”

“You gave it to me yourself, when you mentioned dropping nails on the
road,” Judy answered. “That wouldn’t do the trick, I’m sure, but I know
what will! This rubber door mat!”

She stooped to pick up the dusty “Welcome” mat. As Kathleen and her
aunt gazed at the object in bewilderment, she hastened to reveal what
she had in mind.

“We can spear the nails through the mat so they’ll stand upright! When
the tires pass over them, they can’t miss.”

“That should do it!” Miss Meadows approved.

“Judy, you’re a gem!” laughed Kathleen. “What a brain!”

“No brain, just a memory,” Judy corrected. “I recall hearing a filling
station serviceman relate how vandals once damaged big truck tires that
way. I’m sure it will work if we can do it!”

“I’ll get the nails,” Miss Meadows said, starting away.

In a moment she returned with an assortment in a tin can. As fast as
they could, the three punctured the rubber mat, forcing the nails
through so that their sharp points were upright.

“Listen!” cried Judy suddenly.

She had heard the roar of a powerful motor starting far down the
private road.

“It’s the truck!” Kathleen exclaimed. “It’s coming, and we don’t have
half enough nails in this mat!”

“There will be enough if the tires hit it,” Judy declared. “The
important thing is to get it placed, and fast! Come on!”

Without waiting for Kathleen or her aunt, she raced for the entrance to
the private road.

She could not see the big truck which was hidden by the curves of
the rutty thoroughfare, but she could tell from the roar of the
engine, that it was coming as fast as it could climb the steep slope.
Evidently, Diethelm had warned the hi-jackers, and knowing that delay
would be fatal, they were making a run for it!

Judy had no time to deliberate where she would lay the mat. She dropped
it on the right hand side of the road, directly across an old truck
track.

If the driver saw the mat, he could swerve to miss it. She was
depending though upon the sharp curve, figuring that the truck would
come around it fast, and that the big transport would roll over the
nails before they could be seen.

Kathleen and Miss Meadows already had screened themselves behind the
bushes lining the private road. Judy scarcely had time to slide in
beside them, when the massive transport careened around the curve.

The front wheel struck a deep rut and the truck veered from the middle
of the road.

“They’re going to miss it!” Kathleen moaned, gripping Judy’s arm so
hard that it hurt.

But the next moment, the driver brought the truck back onto its course.
Apparently, he had failed to see the studded mat lying directly in the
path. Both front and rear tires rolled over the long, sharp nails.

Breathlessly, the three watchers waited. Nothing seemed to happen.

When the huge truck reached the entrance to the private road, there was
a loud hissing of air. The transport began to wobble crazily. First the
front tire went down and then the one at the right rear.

“We’ve done it!” Judy laughed jubilantly. “We’ve stopped them!”

“But for how long?” Miss Meadows speculated. “Don’t move, girls! Keep
hidden! Those men are in an ugly mood.”

The two hi-jackers had leaped from the cab of the crippled truck. As
they beheld the disaster which had befallen them, a car came up the
hill, pulling alongside. It was the Forest Service automobile, driven
by Lowell Diethelm. By mere inches, the tires missed the nail-studded
rubber mat.

“Now what?” the ranger demanded furiously. “Can’t you keep going and
get out of here?”

“Keep going?” one of the truckers snarled. “On rims? We’ll have to
abandon the cargo.” Diethelm swung open the door of the coupe. “Get
in!” he directed. “We’ll try to get over the state line.”

The possibility of the two hi-jackers transferring to the ranger’s car
had not occurred to Judy. Now, convinced that her scheme had failed,
she involuntarily started to leave her hiding place.

Miss Meadows held her back. “No, Judy!” she warned. “We’ve done all we
can! Those men are dangerous. Let them go.”

“Let them go,” Judy half moaned. “Oh, this is awful! After stopping
that big truck, to fail so miserably!”

“We saved the cargo at any rate,” Kathleen reminded her. “Furthermore,
Diethelm hasn’t driven off yet! I don’t think he will either!”

The latter excited comment was made as she saw two Forest Service cars
sweep down the main highway.

Before Lowell Diethelm could pull away, the other two automobiles had
blocked the main highway.

“Our fish are netted now!” Kathleen shouted gleefully. “Who says your
idea failed, Judy? It was a grand one!”

No longer fearful, the three came out of hiding.

Six rangers, two of whom the Scouts knew by sight, had surrounded
Lowell Diethelm’s car. They had their revolvers trained on the two
hi-jackers, but Diethelm was trying to put up a convincing story.

“I captured these birds red-handed,” he said glibly. “I was trying to
get ’em to headquarters, when they over-powered me. I’m sure glad you
fellows came along.”

“Yeah?” dryly inquired Ranger Wentz. “Sounds pretty phoney, Diethelm.
You’ll have to think up a better one than that to tell the chief.”

By this time, Judy, Kathleen and Miss Meadows had reached the ranger
cars. As rapidly as they could talk, they told the Forest Service men
exactly what had occurred.

“You’re the girl who called over the radio phone, aren’t you?” one of
the rangers asked Judy.

“That’s right.”

“She stopped the truck too, by putting nails on the road,” Kathleen
added, very proud of her friend. “What a ‘welcome’ that mat proved to
be for the hi-jackers!”

Within five minutes, the rangers were reenforced by state highway
patrolmen, who had responded to an alert. If there had been any
previous doubt as to the identity of the two hi-jackers, it then was
dispelled. State highwaymen definitely identified Joe Pompilli, and
recognized his companion as Porky Burns, a hi-jacker, who had operated
in three states.

“Five or six drivers work this area,” a ranger told Judy. “Joe’s the
head of the outfit though. We may never catch the others, but now that
we have him, the gang will fall apart.”

“Joe was pretty reckless to keep working this territory after he knew
he was wanted,” Judy remarked. “Especially after that truck accident,
when Kathy and I patched him up.”

“Joe operates that way,” the ranger answered. “He was dead sure of
himself. First, he could depend upon our double-crossing friend,
Diethelm, to tip him off as to road blocks.”

“This private road to the cave must have been used in emergencies too,”
Judy added. “My aunt saw the truck headlights on one of the nights
that the state highway patrol had put up its road block.”

“Sure,” the ranger agreed, “it’s plain enough that Diethelm tipped ’em
off regularly. That’s probably why they chanced making one last haul
before they moved to another locality. Pompilli had taken pains to make
himself known as a regular trucker on the road, especially at Silverton
and Grove City where he was a good spender. He figured only the state
highway patrol could cause him any trouble, and he took that chance.”

The state patrolmen requested Kathleen and Judy to accompany them to
headquarters to make sworn statements as to their knowledge of what had
happened. Eager to pin evidence on the two men, they went willingly.
They were questioned at length, and in turn learned considerably more
about how Joe Pompilli and his gang had operated.

“Without Diethelm’s help, we’d have cleaned them out weeks ago,” a
patrolman told the Scouts. “He’s made a clean breast of his part in the
mess to the Chief forester.”

“Diethelm has confessed?” Kathleen asked in disbelief.

“Yes, he knew we had him dead to rights anyway. Matter of fact, he’s
rather remorseful, the boys tell me. Diethelm’s a queer duck. It seems
he made a brilliant record in college and had a fine career ahead
of him as a forest ranger. But on his first assignment, something
went wrong. He ran into personal trouble with his superior, and was
reprimanded. He couldn’t take it. So he brooded and figured on a way to
get even.”

“Then the help he gave the hi-jackers was to even an old score with
another ranger?” Judy inquired.

“Not entirely. It made him susceptible to suggestion, shall we say.
Diethelm was a weak character. He wanted easy money. Joe Pompilli
offered it to him, and so he sold himself cheap.”

“Diethelm even accused the girls in our Scout Camp of being careless
with fire,” Kathleen remarked indignantly.

“Oh, that matter came up,” the highway patrolman said, reminded of
it by her remark. “Diethelm admitted to the chief ranger that on two
occasions he started small fires as a diversion. He wanted to keep
rangers and patrolmen occupied to give the hi-jackers a better chance
to slide their stolen cargo through.”

“Then the Scouts can’t be blamed for that fire?”

“No, they’ve been cleared.”

“Well, that’s a relief!” Kathleen laughed.

“There’s one thing that puzzles me,” Judy said thoughtfully. “When my
aunt first moved into Calico Cottage, someone telephoned--”

“I can tell you about that too,” the patrolman broke in. “Krumm’s
cottage stood idle for quite a spell. Now and then, Diethelm or members
of Joe’s gang would use the telephone. The cottage gave a clear view of
the entrance to the private road. A couple of times, we think Joe and
his truckers spent a night at the cottage. Naturally, after your aunt
moved in, they had to abandon using it.”

“Maybe that explains the ghost!” Kathleen exclaimed.

Judy, however, shook her head. “I’m afraid not,” she said. “At least
I haven’t heard that Joe Pompilli played a flute. Our ghost is an
entirely different matter.”

By the time the two girls returned to Calico Cottage, it was well
after eleven o’clock. Miss Meadows anxiously awaited their return. She
listened attentively to their long account of what had happened in town.

“I’m glad that’s over and we won’t be bothered by weird lights on the
road any more,” she declared fervently. “If I weren’t so worried about
Bart, I could begin to enjoy my vacation here.”

“Bart?” Judy repeated, startled. The excitement of the morning had
washed all thought of the young milkman from her mind.

“I took it upon myself to telephone his landlady,” Miss Meadows went
on. “Bart left his room early yesterday morning, and he’s not been seen
since!”

“That might not mean anything serious, Aunt Mattie.”

“I talked with the other milkman this morning while you were in town,”
Miss Meadows continued. “He thinks as I do, that Bart went into the
cave.”

“Maybe he went down into the cavern before those hi-jackers parked
themselves in the entranceway,” Kathleen speculated. “Perhaps he didn’t
dare come out until they left. He may be waiting somewhere in the dark
passageway even now.”

“That is a possibility,” agreed Miss Meadows, instantly becoming more
cheerful. She reached for her hat and jacket. “I’ll go down there now,
and let him know that it’s safe to come out.”




_Chapter 22_

DESCENT INTO THE CAVE


Judy and Kathleen would not allow Miss Meadows to go alone to Calico
Cave.

Insisting upon accompanying her, they made cheerful talk as they
tramped down the now familiar forest road.

Moving along the narrow path far above the silvery White River, Judy
was the first to see Pete lying at the mouth of the dark cave.

“Why, he’s still there!” she exclaimed. “Poor doggie, do you suppose
he’s had anything to eat or drink?”

Pete lay upon his stomach, head between his paws. A picture of utter
dejection, he whined and whimpered as the girls stooped to pet him.

“Bart must be down in the cave,” Judy declared. “Otherwise, why would
Pete lie here and act as if he’d lost his last friend?”

The three stepped into the dim interior of the cave. Judy cupped her
hands and shouted Bart’s name repeatedly.

Her voice echoed weirdly through the cave, but there was no answering
call. If Bart had descended into the cavern, it was evident that he was
at a level so far below that he could not hear the cry.

“No, Judy,” Miss Meadows said firmly, as her niece would have started
down into the cave. “We don’t dare explore alone. It’s unsafe.”

“What should we do?” Kathleen asked, pulling her jacket more tightly
about her, for the air was cool.

“Bart may be safe enough,” Judy added anxiously. “Then again, if he
braved the siphon, there’s no telling what may have happened.”

“I’ll get in touch with Bart’s landlady again,” Miss Meadows finally
decided. “There’s a chance he may have gone out of town, and returned
to his room by this time.”

“If he shouldn’t be back--” Judy began. “Then what?”

“I don’t know what we can do except to notify the authorities,” Miss
Meadows said, deeply troubled. “Meanwhile, you girls are to return to
camp. I’ll feed Pete and see if I can coax him to the cottage.”

“I don’t feel like going back to camp just now,” Judy said soberly.
“Until I know that Bart is safe, I couldn’t enjoy any of the Scout
activities.”

“Neither could I,” chimed in Kathleen. “It’s been such an exciting day
already. I feel sort of jittery inside.”

The three crawled out of the cave into the sunlight. Pete scrambled
up alertly as they emerged, but could not be coaxed away from the
entranceway.

“If only we dared go down into the cave, we could learn what became
of Bart,” Kathleen remarked to her companions who stood silent and
uncertain. “Then we could end this dreadful suspense.”

“We can’t go down into the cave without a guide,” Miss Meadows repeated
firmly. “I know of no one--”

“Captain Hager!” Judy cried. “He could help us, if he will!”

“Of course! Why didn’t I think of him? At the very least, he should be
able to advise us. Where does he live, Judy?”

“I’m not sure. I think, in a cabin somewhere along the river.”

“Do you suppose you girls could find him?” Miss Meadows urged. “I’ll
wait here.”

“We can try,” Judy promised.

She and Kathleen set off at once, making their way to the river level.
Captain Hager was not at the dock where they first had met him, nor was
his boat anywhere visible on the river.

Judy surveyed the water front, noticing a two-room shack several
hundred yards down the beach.

“That might be his place,” she said. “We can try there anyway.”

A brisk walk brought them to the modest little cabin. Though small, the
building was trim and neat, and had recently been whitewashed. There
was a little garden at the rear, carefully watered and fertilized. An
anchor, encrusted with rust, hung above the door.

“This must be Captain Hager’s place,” Judy decided.

She knocked. After a time, the door opened. Captain Hager stood there
in his shirt sleeves, looking older and less spry than the girls had
remembered him.

But upon recognizing the Scouts, his face creased into a welcoming
smile.

“Come in, come in!” he boomed.

The room into which he led the girls was extremely severe and quite
bare of furniture. There was a bunk bed, a stove, an ice box and two
wooden chairs. Above the bed hung the picture of a middle-aged woman in
a heavy gilt frame.

“My wife,” said Captain Hager, noticing Judy’s eyes upon the picture.
“That was all I kept from the old place. Sold all my furniture at
auction. An old salt like me can’t be bothered with fancy trappings.”

He limped as he walked across the cabin floor to pull out chairs for
the girls.

“Your leg is bothering you?” Judy asked, taking the seat he offered.

“Oh, it’s the old rheumatiz come back to fret me,” Captain Hager
sighed. “For the last couple o’ days I’ve been hobbling around like a
cripple.”

Judy gazed at Kathleen despairingly, feeling that it would be useless
even to broach the subject of the call. In seeking Captain Hager as a
guide, she had forgotten that his lively talk and manner belied his age
and infirmities.

“Now what brings you here?” the captain inquired. “If it’s fishing,
I’ll have to say no, because I’m in dry dock for a couple of days until
I get to feeling better again.”

“We didn’t know about your rheumatism,” Judy said. “I guess it’s quite
out of the question.”

“What is?” the old man demanded. “It wasn’t fishing that brought you.”

Judy shook her head. “It’s Bart,” she told him. “We think he’s gone
into the cave again. He’s been missing more than a day, and we’re
afraid he’s trapped down there. Either that, or he’s attempted the
siphon.”

Captain Hager did not speak for a long while. Then he muttered: “The
siphon! I told that boy to wash it out of his mind, but I always knew
he’d try it someday. The thought of it always was a challenge and a
plague to him.”

“What do you think we should do?” Judy asked desperately. “Notify the
authorities?”

“If he’s gone through the siphon, he’s beyond help,” the old man
answered. “There’s no man living in this community, who would risk his
life to try to force that tunnel of water. Either he’ll get back on his
own, or like his father before him, he’ll be heard of no more.”

“But supposing he didn’t attempt the siphon,” Kathleen interposed.
“Maybe he’s trapped somewhere below the surface by a fall of rock.
Would the rangers check, do you think?”

“They might make up a search party,” the old man conceded. “But who
would lead it? That cave is as simple as A-B-C for a skipper that knows
the layout. The rangers have their maps, but what do they know of
Hager’s Hole? Now if I were ten years younger--”

“It wouldn’t be fair to ask you,” Judy said. “You’re not feeling well
and your rheumatism--”

“Who says I’m not feeling well?” Captain Hager growled. “Next to good
salt air, there’s nothing better for the ache o’ old bones than cool
cave air.”

“You’ll take us down there?” Judy asked eagerly. “You’re sure it
wouldn’t be too hard on you?”

“I’ll go as far as the siphon, or until we find Bart,” the old captain
promised.

“How soon can we get started?” Judy urged.

“As soon as I gather some rope, a good light and a few things we may
need. But time’s no matter in a cave. Night or day, it’s all the same,
once you’re underground.”

“Will we need heavy clothes?” Kathleen asked.

“Those you’re wearing will be all right,” the captain assured her.
“The temperature is the same everywhere in the cave. Heavy clothing is
cumbersome and burdens one in climbing. You’ll need flashlights and
plenty of extra batteries.”

“We’ll get them and meet you at the cave entrance,” Judy said, starting
for the door. She paused, and then impulsively flung her arms about
Captain Hager’s bulky shoulders.

“None o’ that!” he chuckled, enjoying the embrace. “Save your pep for
the cave. Going down is easy enough, but it’s a tough climb back.”

The sun was high by the time Captain Hager rejoined the two girls and
Judy’s aunt at the cave entrance. Meanwhile, Miss Meadows had confirmed
by a telephone call, that Bart had not returned to his rooming house.

After considerable discussion, it was decided that only Captain Hager
and the two girls should make the descent into the cave. Though
reluctant to see the three go without her, Miss Meadows shuddered at
the thought of exploring the unknown. Captain Hager relieved her mind
by assuring her that with him the girls would not be in the slightest
danger.

“You’ll be more help to us here, Ma’am,” he told Miss Meadows. “If
everything goes well, we should be back within four hours, unless we’re
lucky enough to run into Bart before that. Who knows? The young scamp
may be day dreaming down there in a sacred grotto. Sometimes, the
beauty of the formations is so overpowering, it makes a lubber forget
time and space and the cares o’ the world.”

“Well, don’t forget to come back as quickly as you can,” Miss Meadows
warned. “I’ll be dreadfully worried until you’re back here with Bart.”

“We’ll do our best to find him,” Captain Hager said soberly. “I love
that boy like my own son.”

“I know you do, and that you’re exerting yourself to go down into the
cave,” Miss Meadows replied. “If you’re not back in four hours, I’ll
notify the ranger station.”

“Make it five hours,” Captain Hager corrected. “I’m a mite slower than
I was in my younger days. But if my ticker holds out, I’ll be back here
in fine shape. Ready, maties?”

Judy and Kathleen nodded eagerly.

“Then follow me,” directed the captain. “Walk close behind and be
careful about dislodging rocks.”

Single file, the three entered the cave, its ragged shadows enveloping
them.

As they paused an instant, the beams of their flashlights picked up
the lovely emerald green tint of roof moss. Then silently, they began
the descent into the cavern and loneliness closed in.




_Chapter 23_

THE SIPHON


The descent to the chamber of the White Witch was quickly made. There,
the party of three paused briefly to catch breath and to view again the
weird figure which captured the imagination.

A tunnel, at times narrow and low, wound deeper and deeper into the
earth. Judy and Kathleen kept close to their guide. In the stillness of
the cavern they could hear his somewhat labored breathing, for even the
slightest sound was magnified.

They came presently to another small chamber where they paused,
speechless. Stalactites sparkled like jewels, standing out in the most
fantastic shapes.

Judy could imagine animal figures, all in a variety of color, milky
white, red, green and black. The colors, Captain Hager explained, came
from mineral infiltration.

“No wonder Bart couldn’t resist this cave,” Judy remarked in awe,
entranced. “It’s like a fairyland! How I wish all the Scouts could see
it!”

In close formation, the three went on into the cavern depths. A cooler
wind met them, but from where it arose they gained no clue.

The going had become harder now, and after edging through a narrow
space, the three stopped for a moment beside a translucent column which
rose from the floor to the roof.

As they stood thus, there came a deafening crash behind them.

Judy and Kathleen froze in their tracks, too terrified to utter a sound.

“A cave-in behind us?” Kathleen finally asked in a choked whisper.

“It’s nothing,” the captain reassured her. “Sounded like a blast of
dynamite far away. Like enough the rangers are blasting a tree stump
somewhere in the park area.”

“But it sounded as if the cave roof had fallen!” Judy said, still
shaken.

“All sounds underground are magnified,” Captain Hager explained. “Even
the dripping of water can be very loud. Off to the right there is a
Talking Grotto. But we will not explore that passage, for Bart would
not waste time there.”

To proceed, it was necessary to creep across a slippery formation which
resembled a frozen waterfall. They passed through a room which was
cluttered with grotesque toadstool types of stalagmites, and then came
to formations so delicate that they appeared as a lacy cobweb.

As they sat down to rest their legs for a moment, Captain Hager told
the girls that the beautiful pillars they had seen farther back were
made by the joining of stalactites and stalagmites.

The growth of formations, he added, was much faster than generally
believed. Varying rainfall, the thickness of the rock penetrated by
water, and the rate of drip, all affected the deposits, he explained.

“All water that goes into a cave, must come out somewhere,” the captain
continued. “During a hard rain storm, this cave could be dangerous at
the lower levels.”

“You mean we’d get the rain down here?” Kathleen questioned in
amazement.

“Belatedly, yes. Shortly now, you’ll see the underground river. During
the dry months it shrivels, but in the rainy season, it thunders
through the chasms like a mad demon.”

“I hope it doesn’t storm today,” Kathleen said nervously.

“The day was clear,” Captain Hager reassured her. “And there has been
no recent rain to flood the underground stream.”

Farther on, the girls came to a series of small pools in which there
were blind fish. They did not tarry long, but continued through another
long, narrow passage.

“Do you suppose Bart came this way?” Judy finally asked. “Couldn’t he
have taken any number of branch-offs?”

“The branch-offs are dead-end streets, so to speak,” replied the
captain. “If I know that lad, we’ll find him at the siphon, or we’ll
not find him this voyage. Tired?”

“My legs feel sort of cramped,” Judy confessed, ashamed of her
weariness. “But I’m all right.”

“We’re nearing the end,” the captain encouraged the girls. “The last
few yards are the hardest. Then we’ll bring up at the siphon.”

“And if Bart isn’t there?” asked Judy.

The old captain did not answer. He gazed thoughtfully at his sturdy
boots, tested his light briefly on the limestone wall, and then
signaled that he was ready to resume the descent.

Not far beyond the point where they had rested, the three explorers
came to a chamber so large that it seemed to have no surrounding walls.

At its entrance, Captain Hager hesitated, seemingly reluctant to go on.

“If we continue to the siphon, we must cross this chamber, with no
wall to guide us,” he explained. “Beyond, in the darkness, there is a
single narrow passageway leading on. If we hit the target, we’ll soon
be at the end of the cave. If we miss, we may spend hours, trying to
grope our way. We’ll be like a ship wallowing without chart or compass.
Unless you have plenty of nerve--”

“We have,” Judy said resolutely. “We’ve come so far now, we can’t turn
back without learning whether or not Bart is in the cave.”

“Aye, I figured you’d say that,” Captain Hager replied.

He then uncoiled a length of nylon rope, tying it first about his own
waist, then around Kathleen, and finally about Judy, who would bring up
the rear.

“We must keep close together,” he warned. “If we do, there is no
danger. Even if we miss the passageway on the first try, we will find
it. Full steam ahead, my hearties!”

For a few feet the girls followed along a rough, jagged wall before
moving slowly out into the vast room. The silence and immensity of the
cavern were momentarily terrifying, for Captain Hager’s light revealed
only a dark void ahead.

By supreme effort Judy and Kathleen held their nerves in rigid check.
Each step seemed to be taking them deeper and deeper into oblivion. A
dozen doubts assailed them. Would Captain Hager ever find the narrow
passage leading out of the chamber? And if they should be successful in
reaching the siphon, would not the return be even more difficult?

The darkness seemed endless, but finally Captain Hager’s light revealed
a rough wall ahead. A wave of relief washed over Judy and Kathleen. But
it was short lived.

Their guide had paused to move the flash beam slowly along the solid
wall, first to the right, then to the left. He muttered something, but
his words were indistinguishable.

“Are--are we lost?” Kathleen asked.

The captain deliberately did not answer. After a moment, he started on
again, groping along the wall. Kathleen did not repeat her question.

For awhile Captain Hager kept on, the girls directly behind, following
blindly. Then suddenly the old man seemed to relax, and they heard him
give a throaty chuckle.

“Hear that?” he demanded.

Judy and Kathleen already had distinguished the distant sound of
running water. The underground stream!

At the same instant that they heard the splash of water, Captain
Hager’s flash beam focused upon the narrow opening in the cavern
wall--the passageway for which he had searched.

“We near the end,” he said simply.

They moved quickly through the narrow corridor. The thunder of a
distant waterfall they never were to see, was louder now in their ears.

The floor of the passageway sloped sharply downward. Kathleen slipped
but did not fall, for Judy caught her arm to give her support.

Abruptly, the corridor turned, and the girls saw water ahead. The
underground stream, quiet and dark, emerged from a wall of rock to flow
tranquilly beneath the slightly arched cave-roof above.

Captain Hager halted. “We’ve come to the end,” he announced.

Judy and Kathleen were stunned. “The end,” Judy repeated, scarcely
comprehending. “But I thought--”

“We can proceed no further without wading along the river bed,” the
captain explained. “The water gradually deepens until it rises to the
ceiling. At that point, one must dive through and swim underwater, or
turn back.”

He focused his light to the right, and the girls saw the meeting place
of wall and water.

“The siphon?” Judy asked.

“Aye, how far it goes, no man knows. It may extend for only a few feet
or yards. Then again, it may run on indefinitely, with nary a pocket of
air.”

“Bart--?” Judy hesitated to ask the question that was foremost in her
mind.

“Surely he wouldn’t be crazy enough to try to swim through the siphon!”
Kathleen exclaimed.

“The lad is a true spelunker, like his father. He has the courage of a
lion, and the muscles of a young bear. Since he was a mere boy, he’s
studied and dreamed about this cave.”

“But we’ve seen no evidence that he’s anywhere in the cavern,” Judy
said hopefully.

“No evidence?” Captain Hager’s voice was muted, as his light came to
focus upon a rock shelf a few feet above the river bed.

For a moment, neither Judy nor Kathleen understood.

Then, they fully comprehended. There on the rock ledge, set heel to
heel, was an empty pair of shoes. Beside them, in a neat roll, was
Bart’s shirt and jacket.




_Chapter 24_

HELP FROM CAPTAIN HAGER


Three hours now had elapsed since Captain Hager, Judy and Kathleen had
ascertained that Bart Ranieau was somewhere deep in the cave, beyond
the siphon.

Unable to penetrate farther, the three had made the arduous climb back
to the cavern entrance where Miss Meadows anxiously awaited them.

Their report had been a discouraging one. Without question, Bart was
somewhere in Calico Cave, but whether or not alive, no one could say.

“The lad may have reached an air pocket, or a chamber,” Captain Hager
said. “That’s what he gambled on.”

“He’s been missing a day and a half now,” Miss Meadows reminded the
seaman. “While you were down in the cave, I checked on that point.
Surely, if he’s ever coming back, he’d have made it by now.”

“Aye,” the captain soberly agreed.

“Can’t something be done?” Miss Meadows urged.

“Not a man in these parts would risk that siphon, ma’am.”

“I realize that,” Miss Meadows answered. “But is there no other way to
reach him, if he’s still alive? Couldn’t the rangers blast the rock
perhaps?”

“It would be impractical and dangerous, Ma’am.”

“But the cave must have an exit somewhere close--if only it could
be traced down! If one could approach the siphon from the other
direction--”

“Aye, Ma’am,” Captain Hager replied, “I’ve been pondering on
it--pondering hard.”

“Then you do have an idea!” Judy cried. “Does it have anything to do
with Calico Cottage?”

“I’ve been meditatin’ along that line,” the old man admitted.

“Is there any chance the cave connects in some way with the foundation
of the cottage?” Judy demanded excitedly. “Remember, all those strange
sounds which seemed to come from the basement! They might have been
cave noises! And we noticed a gust of cool air coming through a crack
in the mortar.”

“Aye,” the captain nodded. “Bart and I discussed it many a time. Those
strange sounds that have scared the living daylights out of cottage
tenants come from the cave right enough.”

“Then there must be a passageway close to the foundation wall!” Judy
cried.

“I tried to convince Krumm he should build on a new foundation, but he
wouldn’t take advice.”

“If that old foundation could be torn down, maybe an opening down into
the cave could be found!” Judy went on. “What do you think, Captain
Hager?”

“It’s our only chance to ever learn what became of Bart.”

“Then why are we waiting?” Miss Meadows demanded. “We must put men to
work at once!”

“Krumm will have to give his permission,” Captain Hager said, deeply
troubled. “It will mean wrecking the foundation of the cottage.”

“But a young man’s life is at stake!”

“Aye,” the captain agreed, “Krumm should consent, if there’s a mite o’
humanity in him. We’ll go now and put it up to him.”

Word had spread through the village of Bart Ranieau’s plight and
everyone, it seemed, was discussing the young man’s fate. Even before
the little party arrived at Mr. Krumm’s real estate office, groups of
curious began to congregate at the cave entranceway.

Forest rangers and state highwaymen roped off the private road leading
to the cavern, and set up guards to prevent persons from trying to
explore. Miss Ward, bringing her girls to Calico Cottage, learned
belatedly of the disaster and what was being done to try to find Bart.

Meanwhile, Captain Hager was using all his powers of persuasion upon
Mr. Krumm. The real estate man, reluctant to have his property damaged,
argued that it would be a useless expenditure to tear down the old
foundation wall.

“Like as not we wouldn’t find the cave exit,” he protested. “Even if we
did, there’s not much chance of finding that foolhardy young man alive
and you know it! He went the way his father did before him, drowned in
the siphon!”

“We don’t know it,” Captain Hager retorted. “There’s air somewhere
close by to that siphon.”

“How do you know?”

“Because time and again Bart found tadpoles.”

“What have they got to do with it?” Mr. Krumm demanded.

“Tadpoles are a sure sign of open air being near. They’re creatures
that never venture far into underground waters.”

“So?”

“I figure there must be a brook somewhere close where the underground
river empties.”

“There’s no brook around the cottage, and no water under it either.”

“I’m not concerned where the river empties,” Captain Hager said. “I do
think the cottage wall connects in some way with a passage down into
the cave. Where it would lead, if we get into it, no man knows.”

“You want me to tear down the foundation on a wild chance like that?”

“You’ve got to do it,” Captain Hager said grimly. He moved in close.
“Either you do it like a gentleman and get credit for being a hero, or
I’ll have the law on you! You can’t abandon that boy to save a dollar!”

Mr. Krumm’s eyes snapped angrily. Judy and Kathleen were certain he
would order them all out of the real estate office.

But suddenly, his opposition dissolved.

“Okay, tear down the foundation!” he consented. “Get on with it!”

Once Mr. Krumm had waived his objection, men from the village, directed
by forest rangers, immediately went to work.

Judy, Kathleen and the other Scouts milled about the cottage, watching
as a small section of the foundation was torn apart. As the throng
increased, only Miss Meadows, Miss Ward and the Scouts were permitted
in the building.

Dust from the bricks and mortar kept the girls out of the cellar much
of the time. But as the day wore on, a shout from below, brought them
scrambling down the stairway.

By this time, one section of wall had been torn away, though the main
supports of the cottage remained. The musty odor which had annoyed
occupants of Calico Cottage now was very strong and definitely came
from the jagged opening. A group of workmen clustered about the hole,
blocking Judy’s view.

“Have you found the cave opening?” she cried. “Have you?”

“Aye,” Captain Hager informed her jovially. “But where the passage
leads, we don’t know.”

“What causes the odor?” Kathleen asked, sniffing.

“Imprisoned air. It’s gradually clearing out. Like as not it comes from
decaying vegetation--”

“Listen!” cried Judy tensely.

“The boy with the flute!” exclaimed Kathleen in awe.

Those in the room had frozen to attention. From the great gaping hole
there issued forth a musical note, for all the world like the music of
a flute.

Then there came a series of taps as if someone might be thumping a
stick on hard rock.

“That’s a man-made sound!” cried Captain Hager. “Bart’s down there!
He’s trying to signal us!”

“We’ll get him out!” shouted a forest ranger. “Any volunteers to go
down into the hole?”

Arthur Wentz stepped forward. Rope was tied about his waist, and
carefully he was lowered until his feet touched solid flooring.

For awhile those above could see the descending light, then it
vanished. They paid out more and more rope until the coil was nearly
exhausted.

Finally, a signal came--two short tugs. Gently, the men began to pull
on the rope.

“Wentz is coming up!” one of the workmen shouted. “It’s hard pulling!”

“Then he must have found Bart!” Judy cried, hugging Kathleen in her
excitement.

Minutes passed as the men kept at the rope. Then from the hole
staggered Wentz and the young man he supported.

Bart was barefoot and his bare back had been covered by the ranger’s
shirt. His lips were blue with cold, but he grinned with the spirit of
a conqueror.

“Captain Hager!” he mumbled, embracing the old man. “I did it!”

“You sure did, son,” the captain answered, tears streaming down his
grimy cheeks. “You almost did for yourself too.”

“I thought you’d get me out,” Bart said. “I never gave up, never for a
minute.”

“You can thank these Scouts,” Captain Hager said, smiling at Judy and
Kathleen. “They pestered me to go down into the cave with ’em. If they
hadn’t, we’d never have learned that you went through the siphon.”

“It was a wonderful but terrifying experience,” Bart mumbled. “My
father--”

“That can wait,” Captain Hager said gruffly. “You can tell us all about
it later. Get yourself to a warm bed now, before you die of pneumonia.
Get along with ye!”

Nearly exhausted, and shaking with cold, Bart was lifted bodily and
carried to a waiting ambulance.




_Chapter 25_

COURT OF HONOR


Two days had elapsed since Bart Ranieau had been brought out of Calico
Cave suffering from shock, but otherwise unharmed by his thrilling
explorations.

Long hours of sleep and plenty of food had restored him to his former
peak of health. But as his strength returned, he became restless and
pestered hospital officials until at last they dismissed him.

Almost immediately, Bart sought Judy and Kathleen at Pine Cone Camp to
thank them for saving his life.

Word spread like wildfire that the young explorer had arrived and soon
the daring young man was surrounded by Girl Scouts who teased him to
tell the story of his adventure.

“Start at the very beginning,” Judy urged. “Don’t leave out anything.”

“That’s a large order, but I’ll try,” grinned Bart. “Well, I’d made up
my mind to try the siphon. I didn’t tell anyone, because I knew if I
did, the authorities would try to stop me.”

“I left my shoes and shirt on the ledge because I couldn’t be burdened
with them in swimming. I reasoned too, that if I got through, wet
clothes wouldn’t help keep me warm. So I stripped to my trunks.”

“How long was the siphon?” inquired Betty Bache, who had joined the
group of intent listeners.

“Long enough,” Bart said grimly. “The first one wasn’t so bad.”

“Then there was more than one?” inquired Ardeth Packett.

“Two of them. I waded at first. The water finally came up to my neck
and then over my nose. When I couldn’t walk, I dived.”

“Weren’t you scared to death?” Virginia Cunningham asked with a shiver.

“I sure was,” Bart admitted. “I knew I might find water to the ceiling
for an indefinite distance ahead. Anyway, I decided to chance it. I
took a great deep breath and plunged through.”

“What happened?” questioned Beverly Chester breathlessly.

“The first barrier was astonishingly easy. I was through it in less
than a minute and was able to wade again. My only light was a container
of matches carried in the top of my bathing cap. Ahead I could see
another siphon.”

“You were reckless to go on,” Kathleen chided.

“Maybe,” Bart acknowledged, “but it would have been very nearly as hard
to have gone back. I hoped I’d find where the cave came out.”

“Tell us about the second siphon,” Judy urged.

“It was a tricky one, I’m here to report. I don’t know how long I was
underwater, but it seemed a minute and a half. My lungs were bursting
when finally I emerged. But it was worth it!”

“What did you find?” demanded Beverly.

“A hall filled with the most beautiful formations I’ve ever seen.”

“Better than the White Witch and those chambers before one gets to the
siphon?” Judy asked.

“Oh, a thousand times better! I stood there speechless and in awe,
dazzled by the glitter of so much crystal. For a little while, I lost
all count of time. It seemed unreal.”

“Go on,” Kathleen urged, as Bart became lost in his own memories.

“Those stalactites and stalagmites were fantastic beyond description,”
Bart told the Scouts. “There were animal shapes, and statue-like
figures--one a woman with a bridal veil. Why, if steps can be built
down from Calico Cottage, everyone can see the chamber! Krumm will
make more money opening up the cave than he ever could do renting the
cottage.”

“While you were down there, you didn’t solve the mystery of Calico
Cave’s ghost, did you?” Judy asked. “You didn’t meet our little boy
with the flute?”

“I certainly did,” Bart replied. “The explanation for those flute
noises is simplicity itself. One of the roof formations takes the shape
of a long hollow tube. Each time water drops through the tube onto the
floor, it produces the musical note.”

“Did you realize how close you were to the basement of Calico Cottage?”
Judy next asked the young explorer.

“I thought I might be somewhere near, but I couldn’t be sure. One loses
all sense of direction under ground. I tried to climb, but the rocks
were straight up, and I couldn’t get a grip.”

“When you first came out of the cave, you spoke of your father,”
Kathleen said, rather reluctant to remind Bart of a painful subject.

“Yes, I know now what became of him,” he answered. “My father didn’t
drown as we thought. He made both of the siphons just as I did.”

“Then he was trapped in the chamber and unable to signal anyone.”

“I’m not sure if he tried or had the strength to signal,” Bart
responded. “I found the skeleton and a note, only part of which I’ve
been able to read. My dad had a heart attack. He wasn’t too expert
as a swimmer, and the exertion together with the excitement of his
discovery, may have brought on a sudden attack. It must have taken him
fast.”

“But there was no escape from the chamber?” Virginia probed. “No way
back?”

“Of that I’m not sure either,” Bart returned. “It would take a hardy
swimmer to swim against the current. I think I might have made it. I
was turning the thought over, trying to decide what to do. I’d about
made up my mind that if no help came, I’d attempt it before my strength
left me.”

“Does the cave have no exit except through the cottage foundation?”
Ardeth next interposed a question. “What becomes of the underground
river?”

“It empties into the brook which flows into the river,” Bart explained.
“But no one can follow the course of the underground stream farther
than I went. The way beyond is barred by solid rock.”

The young explorer spent more than an hour at camp, telling the Scouts
many interesting facts about caves in general.

All the girls were envious of Judy and Kathleen because they had viewed
so many of the beautiful formations.

“The most breath-taking sights are in the chamber directly under Calico
Cave,” Bart said. “There’s no reason why a ladder or steps can’t be
built down there, so everyone can view them. I am to talk to Mr. Krumm
today and see what can be done. It’s a cinch he can’t rent his cottage
without extensive repairs, and it would pay him to open up the cave
instead.”

Since the tearing down of the cottage foundation wall, Miss Meadows
had not been able to stay in the dwelling. She had taken a room at the
hotel for one night, and after that Mr. Krumm had transferred her to
another one of his cottages, directly on Morning Glory Lake.

Surprisingly, the real estate man had announced that Miss Meadows
might have the place rent free.

“You’ve had a rugged time of it at the other cottage,” he acknowledged.
“You deserve a couple of peaceful weeks.”

The girls correctly surmised that Mr. Krumm’s generosity was occasioned
by a belated realization that Calico Cave had great commercial
possibilities.

They were entirely right. In the week that followed, the real estate
man bolstered up the cottage foundation again, converting the building
into an office where admission tickets could be sold.

He then had carpenters construct a stairway down to the fairyland
chamber, one which would serve temporarily until a more permanent
installation could be made.

Sometime prior to the day on which the public was to given its first
view of the cave, Mr. Krumm visited Pine Cone Camp to present a check
to Judy.

“Why, what is this?” she asked in astonishment. “Is it a contribution
for the Girl Scouts?”

“You may consider it as such as you want to,” he said. “It’s your bonus
for solving the mystery of the Calico Cottage ghost.”

“That was easy because I had scientific helpers,” Judy laughed. “I
think Bart and Captain Hager deserve the money even more than do the
Scouts.”

“Don’t worry about that,” Mr. Krumm said a bit grimly. “They’ll have
a share of the profits from the cave operation. Bart saw to that. He
convinced me that I couldn’t manage the place without them around to
look after things.”

“In that case, I’ll accept the check,” Judy decided. “Not for myself
though. I’ll give it to Pine Cone Camp. Perhaps the money can be used
to bring some girl to camp who otherwise couldn’t afford to come.”

Before departing, Mr. Krumm invited all the Scouts to a preview of the
cave chamber.

“Oh, wouldn’t it be fun if we could have our Court of Awards ceremony
there!” Judy exclaimed. “Could we, Mr. Krumm?”

“It’s all right with me,” he said. “The electric lights will be in by
the end of the week.”

Judy spoke at once to the camp director about her plan. At first, Miss
Lubell was somewhat hesitant, but after personally inspecting the cave
room and the facilities which had been provided for the public, she
became as enthusiastic as Judy over the prospect of holding a ceremony
in the fairyland chamber.

The night set for the affair finally arrived. The Scouts enjoyed
a picnic supper at the cottage grounds, after hiking to the site.
Afterwards, with Bart and Captain Hager acting as guides, they
descended to the underground chamber.

Electric lights, skillfully placed, gave the colorful formations
ethereal effects which were quite breathtaking. The Scouts named many
of the figures, giving them such titles as the Indian Oven, Woman with
a Hood, the Cathedral, and Phantom Hands.

The spell of enchantment was still upon the girls as they took
formation for the Court of Awards ceremony.

Miss Lubell personally presented special achievement badges to all
the Scouts who had earned them. Judy, Kathleen, Ardeth, Virginia, and
the other members of Beaver Patrol won honors in many fields, for
dramatics, in swimming, health and for safety achievements.

Then Miss Lubell announced that for Judy and Kathleen, there was to be
a special award. An expectant hush fell upon the group.

Amazed and rather embarrassed to be singled out for particular
attention, the two Beaver Patrol girls stepped forward to receive the
badges.

As Miss Lubell held them up, everyone burst into laughter. As a joke,
the Scouts of Lone Tree had fashioned two huge medals of tin. On their
face, in large letters, they had painted: “Explorer.”

“Just a little memento of your exciting summer, Judy,” Ardeth assured
her. “You know, wherever you go, you seem to stir up fun and adventure.”

“All of the Scouts do,” Judy corrected. “Kathleen certainly did as much
as I to earn her tin medal!”

“I just followed in your footsteps,” Kathleen laughed. “Anyway, we
shouldn’t get the credit for producing forest fires or hi-jackers.
Caves are our specialty.”

“Here’s hoping you find more and better ones,” Ardeth chuckled,
fastening the huge tin medal to Judy’s Scout uniform. “Or is that
possible?”

“We never could discover a more thrilling cave than Calico,” Judy
replied earnestly.

“But you’ll try!” Ardeth teased.

Judy shook her head. Her eyes twinkled as she answered, “No, I promise
you I’ve had enough of stalagmites and stalactites for one summer. From
this hour forward, I’m spending all my idle hours at Pine Cone Camp!”




Transcriber’s Note:

Perceived typographical errors have been corrected.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Girl Scouts at Singing Sands, by 
Mildred Augustine Wirt

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GIRL SCOUTS AT SINGING SANDS ***

***** This file should be named 60977-0.txt or 60977-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/9/7/60977/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Sue Clark, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

